In case you haven't guessed I'm still fuming about last week's decision by Sony executives to cancel the premiere of The Interview, the assassination comedy about Kim Jung Un.

It should be noted that I am hardly a fan of Seth Rogen/James Franco movies.

Last year my wife and I were planning to go see a Finnish documentary about fracking, global warming and its devastating effect on the survival of the Norwegian Blue, a fjord-dwelling parrot now on the extinction list. Unfortunately, this award winning doc was sold out and we ended up watching The End.

Sitting through a poorly-scripted Rogen movie is difficult. It's hard not to think, "Damn, I could have written something funnier than this."

And even harder to think, "I've got write another end of year Sales Event campaign just to pay for the air duct cleaning guy and the new brake pads for my daughter's Volvo."

In short, the quality of the Seth Rogen movie is not the issue. Cowtowing to a fat-ass tinpot dictator who runs a third world cesspool of a country, is.

I'm sorry, but how friggin' soft have we become?

It's shameful to think that America's Greatest Generation, women who riveted planes and men who stormed Nazi-fortified beaches in France, have lived long enough to see us quiver in cyber fear. Pissing our pants, because some boiled-carp eating nerds in Pyongyang might hack into our computers and seed some malware into our iPad Solitaire application.

Earlier this year, there was a restaurant in Vermont  that dared to promote their prize-winning bacon. A woman, who happened to be a vegan and a Muslim, took offense and complained to the restaurant owners. And before the fat began to sizzle and emit that unmistakable aroma that says, "forget what your God commands and gnaw on my grizzled goodness", they removed the sign and apologized for upsetting the community.

In my book, bacon is more American than Baseball, Chevy or Apple Pie. And can, in fact, be used to improve all three.

I'm surprised these spineless restaurant owners didn't buy hijabs for the staff and go all halal, you know just to prevent any further religious disturbance.

Being in the ad business, I've admittedly developed a thick skin. But the truth is I'm offended by people who are easily offended.

Here's what I'm going to do about it.

I'm going to step up production of my Kim Jung Fun tumblr .

I'm going to continue my scathing criticism of Islam and the silent masses who get more riled up about Danish cartoons or pork products, than they do about the murder of children, stonings, honor killing, ethnic cleansing, FGM, the persecution of homosexuals, slave trading, and 7th century misogyny.

And I'm going to ramp up my attacks on the stupidity we all seem to be swimming in, whether it's in politics, advertising or just life in general.

This is the last post for 2014.
In 2015, I'm going on the offense.

No more Mr. Nice Guy.

So have a Merry Fucking Christmas.

And a Happy Fucking New Year!


People often ask me, "Rich, what's the longest ad you've ever written?"

OK, no one has ever asked me that.

No one asks about anything I've written. Perhaps that's why I'm driven to throw so much up against the wall. In the hope that one day, some misguided soul will act on the presumption that I have anything meaningful to say.

But I digress.

And if it weren't so easy to slip into a stream of consciousness digression, there's no way I could have written the ad you see pictured above. I'm also providing you a link to a larger photo   in the off chance you actually want to read all 1839 words. The link also brings you to my portfolio page where you can entertain yourselves for about 47 seconds.

Tops.

The reason I bring this ad to your attention, as if I needed a reason, is because this year, more than others, I am seeing more complaints from clients and from agency presidents about the lack of writers.

Ad schools are graduating art directors, UI designers and flick flack conflibulators, but not many people who can legitimately string sentences together. Earlier in the year, I was at one agency where a recent graduate was asked to write a headline congratulating a client on some corporate jack off achievement.

The headlines presented were not creative. I'm not even sure they were English.

Verbs were fighting nouns. Adverbs were adversely attached to other adverbs. And in the end, the client would have been better off simply running the brief. 14 monkeys randomly clacking away on keyboards would have produced more legible work.

It's bad out there.
But, it's also good.

Because it means my phone will continue to ring. And next year, I will have two daughters attending expensive colleges, so I will need to stay busier than ever.

I see double-dipping, overcharging and shameless self-promoting in my immediate future.

If I may come full circle, and frankly I don't see why I need your permission, the ABC ad pictured above never ran. Our intention was to place it centerspread in the Sunday NY Times Book Review Section, but a consortium of Southern broadcast affiliates took offense and lobbied the corporate brass to kill it before it went to press.

First of all, I wasn't aware that anyone in the South could actually read. If they could, I'm sure it wouldn't be The Book Review Section of the Jew York Times -- for those of you below the Mason Dixon Line.

Moreover, if they had bothered to wade through the ad they would see that it was chock full of irony. They'd be reading words written by a writer freely quoting other writers to dispel the notion that reading was of any value to writers and/or readers.

It's so meta, my head is about to explode.

Just to thumb my nose at the half-wits who lacked the courage to run the ad I'm going to submit this piece to the Huffington Post.

Where it promises to be seen by even fewer people.


If you were to Google the word caganer (I know my audience and I know you will) you would discover the lovely tradition started in Northern Spain by villagers who decorated their yearly nativity scenes with The Shitter.

If you were to investigate further (again, I know you will) and click on the Images section, you'd see caganers of all shapes and sizes, including many celebrities, political leaders and even sports heroes, all hunched over and "Launching a lifeboat off the SS Assitania."

About three quarters down the page you'd see this entry:


It comes from my original posting about caganers way back in 2010.

And if you were to click it, you'd be redirected to my blog. I know this from doing a careful analysis of my recent web traffic. Turns out an astounding number of people are now coming here because of something I wrote nearly 5 years ago.

No small achievement.

Particularly for someone like me, an advertising copywriter, who can only look back at a pitiful series of small 30 second and 1/4 page meaningless lifetime achievements.

Nevertheless, I couldn't be prouder.
I am winning the Internet.

RoundSeventeen has now become synonymous with people pulling down their pants in public and taking a big curly dump.

Oh wait, that didn't come out right.


This is my home, circa 1998.

As you can see it was undergoing a major remodeling.

Unable to afford a new house, unless we moved to a double-wide in Palmdale or Mojave, my wife and I were left with no other option but to blow out our modest California ranch house and add a second story.

It was not an easy decision.
Particularly since my knowledge about construction was quite limited.

In my teen years I had seen my father acquire the entire Time Life Homeowners Collection. And I witnessed his incredible growth from a tinkerer to a full fledged carpenter. When he wasn't CPA'ing, he was always playing with his band saw, his miter saw, his two fisted router and his belt sander.

At one point, he grew so ambitious that he single-handedly tacked on a Home And Garden-worthy Finnish Sauna to the master bedroom. I could have learned quite a bit from him, but typical father/son friction made that all but impossible.

And so it was I found myself entering this remodel business completely unarmed. Fortunately the Internet was coming into its own and offered a wealth of information and references on potential contractors.

So I did my homework. Lots of it.

Mostly because I didn't want to flitter away thousands of dollars. But also because it gave me a good excuse not to change diapers and escape from the non-stop crying of our two colicky daughters.

I ended up awarding the job to Fischer Construction. The owner, Joel, was perhaps one of 13 Jews in America (my dad had passed away a decade earlier) who knew his way around a Nail Gun, a Torpedo Level and a Hammer Tacker.

My exhaustive research paid off. Apart from some miscues with his subcontractors, my experience with Joel the Jewish Contractor was outstanding. He showed up every day. Did what he promised. And as you might expect, did not exceed the budget.

Which is why I find it so amusing that my landline phone is ringing off the hook with cold call solicitations from contractors who are "in my area and ready to get going on my next project."

Really?

I never thought of demo-ing my home or adding another bathroom as an impulse buy, but hey if you're nearby, sure stop on over and let's fire up cement mixer.

Seriously, who does that?

What these contractors lack in marketing savvy they certainly make up for with persistence. I have asked over and over again to be taken off their calling list. But they keep dialing my number.  So now I have a new way to get crossed off their list.

I purposely whet their appetite and get them worked up about landing a big job. The script goes as follows:

"Yes. Yes I am interested in remodeling the bathroom, maybe even the kitchen, we're thinking granite counters. Even granite shelves…wait, can you hold on I have another call…(slight pause) thanks for holding, that was a creditor on the other line…well, one of the creditors…hello….hello?"


I have a bone to pick about advertising.

I know that's shocking.
But the cardinal rule of journalism is, "If it bleeds it leads."

So what has crawled up my butt and deemed itself worthy of a diatribe today? It's this notion of "branding". More specifically, the idea that every commercial should start with a brand identifier in the first few seconds. And by the way, exposure does not equal persuasion. Not by a long shot.

I was at Chiat/Day when this pedanticism was born. I distinctly remember the day when an eager Account Director, tried to gussy up this client dictate and dropped the stinkbomb on my boss:

"The CMO at Sony had a great idea. And wants us to start every PlayStation spot with a Playstation mnemonic. Isn't that great?"

"What?", said Jerry with unusual resistance.

In case you hadn't noticed, they never walked away from that mandate. In fact, they started an ugly trend. Today, commercials for cars, beers, phones and insurance companies, all begin with a navel-gazing logo, sound or hamfisted branding device.

As a result, they have taken an important tool, perhaps our most engaging, out of the hands of copywriters and art directors -- storytelling.

Imagine going to see a stand up comedian who begins every joke with the punchline. I'm not sure you'd stick around for the two drink minimum.

The same laws of set-up, prologue and tension building hold true for the crafting of commercials. But no one, it seems, wants to hold their cards until the end.

"Make the logo bigger" has been replaced with, "get to the logo earlier."

Let's say it's January 22, 1984. It's the third quarter of the Super Bowl. The Raiders are up 21-3 over the Washington Redskins. A 60-second black and white commercial begins with…

"Ap - ple."

SFX: MUSICAL STING

And instead of being captivated by a mysterious dystopic vision of the future and the unveiling of a desktop computer that would change the course of history, 25 million Americans take this blatant commercial cue and decide it's a good time to take a whiz.

1984 isn't like 1984.

Apple doesn't get $10 million worth of free publicity.

The Mac dies a quick death. And for good measure takes the entire company to the grave as well.

There's never an iPod, an iPad or an iPhone.

And you're reading this on your IBM Homeputer 9000™. That is, if you figured out how to reformat the C: drive and have your modem hardwired to the Gates Worldwide Interweb Complex a/123.


A long time ago I revealed one of the dirtiest secrets about copywriters: we spend the majority of our time not copywriting.

That is, we're not clicking and clacking from the moment we step up to the keyboard to the moment we hand it off to an art director and say, "here, make me look pretty."

I suspect this is true for real writers as well.

Writing comes in spurts.

It's stop and go. Then it's stop and play some online chess. Or stop and check out who's eating what on Facebook. Or stop and look at the Google analytics and lament the fact that millions of people are not reading your daily drivel.

On one of these fanciful Facebook forays I ran across an Australian gentleman named Ken Hamm. Maybe you've heard of him. Recently Mr. Hamm did a Youtube debate with Science Guy Bill Nye.

Though he was backed by the power of providence, he did not win.

Ken is also in the news because deep in the backwoods of Kentucky (America's Think Tank) he is building a life-size replica of Noah's Ark. It will be, according to the website , "the largest timber frame structure in the USA."

It would have been the largest in the world, but some nut job in Belgium is working on a 14 story high Birdhouse.

As you can see from the schematic, the construction of the Ark is quite ambitious.



Ken is hoping to raise close to 30 million dollars for its construction. At least 3 million of that will be earmarked for the oversized bathrooms on the top deck, including a separate facility for the children, on the far left.

Apparently, while God is wiping out all of humanity for their collective sins and all the animals of the world have been herded on to a large open-air, floating petting zoo -- the predecessor to today's Open Office Plan -- it's important to have proper facilities to make a pee-pee or a doo-doo.

In addition to his Ark project, Ken Hamm is an ardent Creationist and accordingly scoffs at Darwin/Evolution/Science, or anything resembling reason. Choosing instead to believe the Earth is only 6,000 years old.

I've been to my brother's apartment.
He has leftover Chinese food that is more than 6,000 years old.

Naturally, like a moth drawn to a flame, I often find myself on Hamm's Facebook page. And even more often, I find myself trolling the threads and making smart ass remarks. It is, as the title of this piece indicates, so damn easy.

Of course any attempt to dissuade the faithful is completely futile. They tend to whirl themselves into a dervish frenzy with an impenetrable circle of logic.

"The Bible says there is a God. And it has to be true because God wrote the Bible."

Why bother, you might ask.

I like to think of it as a chef sharpening his favorite kitchen knife. It's part of the job.

Plus it's fun.

I don't care for cats. But give me a box of kittens and a strong laser pointer and I can entertain myself for hours.


Years ago, I was contacted by the head of a production company in town. We had never met, but for reasons unknown, he became a fan of this blog.

He was trying trying to grow his roster of directors and thought it best to start grooming talented copywriters who might blossom into something. When none of those talented copywriters answered the bell, he called me.

I know many who have made the leap from agency staff guy to incredibly wealthy helmsmen with work that we all know and recognize. And so for two minutes I entertained the notion. I remember talking to Richard O'Neill, head of production at Chiat/Day and soliciting his advice.

"Always cast someone unusual. Or frame the shot with something odd. Find a reason to surprise people with something unexpected."

This, it turns out, is excellent counsel. Look at what's good or at least memorable on TV. The Old Spice Man, The Southern Comfort Dude in his Speedo, or The Most Interesting Man in the World. Even Flo, from the Progressive campaign,  -- though I'm not a fan -- stands out.

Why?
Because they're not vanilla.
Vanilla sucks.

Vanilla is the common denominator in all the unforgettable characters in commercials. I could start naming them, but then I might offend some friends and colleagues.

But we all know who they are.
They smile too much.
They revel in the stupidest shit.
And they're happy.

Happiness has got to be the most unlikable attribute to be put on film. And yet that's what focus groups, clients and bosses of people we call clients want. Happy, homogeneous and non-threatening. It's the way I imagine the white-robed residents of heaven. And why, even though I'm averse to excessive heat, I'd prefer to spend my eternity in hell.

The upshot is I never pursued a career switch to directing. Another bullet dodged.

I prefer non-team sports. I prefer writing. I prefer doing things the way I want to do them and not having to spoon feed or rationalize every artistic decision or choice.

And I like non sequiturs.


Earlier this year, The Barbarian Group, a New York advertising boutique/agency/assemblage of unbearable hipsters introduced the world to their revolutionary new SuperDesk™. You might recall this "75 yard long unbroken ribbon of awesomeness."

It certainly made an impression on me.

Pablo Picasso once said, "good artists copy, great artists steal."

So today, I'm proud to introduce to you SuperDesk2™ (see above.)

Or as I like to call it, "A four and a half foot long mortgage paying, credit card reducing, 401K funding factory."

Unlike its predecessor, SuperDesk2™ does not promote employee engagement or creative collaboration or the shifting of any paradigms.

It has been designed for One.

One cranky misanthropic copywriter who abhors small talk, detests electronica music and does not play well with others, particularly if they are wearing a sock hat or have a greased handlebar mustache.

SuperDesk2™ has been handcrafted from the finest hard maple and in stark contrast to the original SuperDesk™ is equipped with many drawers and ample storage space, for personal items which may or may not be necessary for the purpose of writing and/or procrastination.





Keeping in mind the function for which it has been designed, the SuperDesk2™ has been thoughtfully integrated into the new SuperOffice™.

This revolutionary new workspace promotes quiet and a relaxed environment far, far away from incomprehensible Planners, useless brainstorming sessions and noisy agency birthday parties.

Witness the SuperDoor™.



Copywriters, particularly the underachieving kind, spend a great deal of time not copywriting. That is, their minds tend to wander. This can mean hours wasted on mindless websites, buildyourownyurt.com or kinkyeskimoporn.com.

Or it could necessitate a break from the computer screen. The designers of the SuperOffice™have thought of everything.


Yes, a window does seem like a relic from the past, but sometimes the old way of doing things is the best way of doing things.

Finally, after a grueling 20 minutes of headline writing or sales event conceptualizing, the exhausted copywriter will often find himself, or herself (for your 3%'ers), in need of some restorative downtime.

Once again, these forward thinkers have come to the rescue.

Introducing the SuperNapStation3000™.


My wife is angry.

Not for something I've done. But for something I've stopped doing. Sleep.

You see, I've been getting up earlier and earlier these days. Not by choice, mind you. If I had my druthers I'd be sawing wood until 9 or 10 o'clock in the morning. Which is not all that unusual since I stay up way past midnight. And have the sleep patterns of a teenager.

All that is changing. And like many men of 44, I'm rising from bed shortly after the sun rises over the horizon.

In the past, I'd awake at an early hour, curl up around my wife's pillow and catch another cycle of REM with odd dreams of Scarlet Johansen, Angelina Jolie, a bottle of olive oil, a trampoline and a catcher's mask. The body is willing, the mind however is not.

These days, I have been waking up with all synapses firing. Words, ideas, sentences, phrases, paragraphs, are ricocheting off every crease of my tiny brain. I can't roll over and hit the rack. I am compelled to the keyboard to begin the clicking and the clacking.

It's not writer's block.
It's writer's bloat.

And I'm not saying it's all good either. In fact, I think you can see from today's post, that it is not.

You would think that my increased productivity would please my wife, and my two daughters. Because believe me it takes quite a bit of productivity to maintain the lavish lifestyle they've come to enjoy. But, as is often the case when I do your rhetorical thinking, you'd be wrong.

You see, my new routine upsets my wife's old routine.

She has always enjoyed the hour of quiet solitude after the girls have shipped off to school and she had the downstairs all to herself. That is no longer the case as I have noisily interrupted all that with my coffee making, my toast buttering and my thought scribbling.

How dare I?

There is a silver lining in all this, she will rationalize. If my sleeping habits can change, perhaps one day I will learn to put the seat down.

Fat chance.


If you're married to (my condolences) or know of anyone who works in the Creative Department of an ad agency there's a good chance you are not seeing much of him or her these days.

It's Super Bowl Crunch Time.

And ad agency personnel are scrambling like mad to get their spots produced and polished in time for America's early February orgasm. They -- the creatives -- should be in edit bays and sound studios eating overpriced sushi and acting like royals.

Sadly however, some, many, are still struggling to get an idea out the door and through the client gauntlet of ineptitude.

That's right, The Big Game™ is less than two months away but because of the enormous pressure and the rampant committee-think that governs the corporate landscape, many agency staffers find themselves back at the drawing board.

Perhaps it's a sign of my declining career, but for the first time in many years I don't find myself caught up in this moronic morass.

At one time I would salivate over the prospect of landing a Super Bowl spot and would gladly endure the pain associated with the strategic changes, the revisions, the rewrites, and the endless do-overs.

The opportunity to knock one out of the park on a magical Super Bowl Sunday could make or break a career. Some have cemented a spot for themselves in advertising history. Like the creators of Apple's "1984", or Monster.com's "When I Grow Up" or more recently, Dodge's "God Made a Farmer."

That time, like a schticky, Vaudevillian episode of Seinfeld, has long passed.

The glory has been replaced with a Monday morning chorus that has been singing the same refrain for the last decade.

"The game was OK, but the commercials sucked."

They may be right.
They may be wrong.
Who am I to say?
It's not like I sit at my desk and relentlessly and often carelessly pass judgment on every single issue of the day. Oh wait…

The point is, this year I have no skin in the game. And I couldn't be happier.

Not long ago, I was toiling in the offices of a major agency. I happened across a conference room, where on foam core boards, many potential Super Bowl storyboards were pinned and competing to be the prized agency recommendation.

Next to each script there was a colored Post It Note: red from the Creative Director, blue from Planning, yellow from Account Management, green from Media, magenta from Finance and orange from Human Resources.

Each department head had weighed in on how to 'improve' the spot. And all the notes had a recurring theme:

"Make It Funnier."

I'm not sure how a copywriter and an art director can deliver on that consensual request. I'm only sure that in their efforts to appease the lowest common denominator, interdepartmental scrutiny, the spot got less funny.

You didn't think I was going to weigh in on the mess in Ferguson, or even yesterday's fiasco in Staten Island, did you?

I like to play with fire and walk the razor's edge but I'm not about to poke that hornet's nest with a big pointy stick.

No, the jury I'm talking about is the one I chaired in an Inglewood courtroom about 5 years ago.

I had been called to jury duty many times prior, but never found a way to get inside the box. And unlike my fellow potential jurors who could spin a yarn or feign mental incompetence, I was eager to serve.

I wanted a first hand look at our dysfunctional judicial system. My experience in Inglewood did not disappoint.

Once in the leather seat, the prosecuting attorney greeted us, spent less than a minute with the pleasantries and then immediately launched into his case. He was not saving the best for last. He went straight for the jugular.

"Ladies and gentleman, I'd like you to look at this videotape."

With that he opened his laptop and hit the play button.

The screen positioned for our viewing pleasure brought up the picture in full High Definition. It was security camera footage shot from inside a convenience store, a 7-11 located just two blocks from the Inglewood Police Station. I could have covered that distance with a solid 5 iron and a good tail wind.

On the tape, we saw a large man wearing a tan polo shirt and blue shorts step behind the counter and hold a screwdriver to the back of a tiny Pakistani man who stood all of 5'4". He demanded all the money and the fresh-off-the-boat cashier complied and handed the man $32.68 cents from the register.

"Thank you, have a nice day," he said reflexively in his thick Urdu accent.

As soon as the thief ran out of the store, the Pakistani man called 911. While he was on the phone with the police he dutifully began ringing up a customer with a two Slim Jims, a bag of corn chips and a large Grape soda.

The burglar did not get far, as a cruiser was returning to base and chased the man down on a nearby street.

As open-and-shut cases go it was textbook open-and-shut. We returned a verdict in 45 minutes, a new world record the Bailiff told us.

It would have been sooner but one guy on the jury was not convinced by the videotape. His reluctance was short lived after an older African American woman on the panel started chewing him out in the most delightful public shaming I've ever witnessed.

"Did you not see the video? What kind of nonsense is coming out of yo mouth? Pick up that damn piece of paper and write guilty before I come over there and slap the stupid outta yo head."

The perpetrator, who has also served time for sexual abuse, is now sitting in a prison in Calapatria. I took the trouble to find him online. And ladies, though he won't be eligible for parole until 2019, he is available and currently looking for companionship.

My ideal pen pal is a woman who is intelligent and upbeat yet down to earth, spiritually grounded and has a sense of self, yet who is spontaneous and who also possess an open mind. Race and looks are not important because they have nothing to do with the spirit of who you are as a person; however, a nice responsibility and a good sense of humor are always a plus, because I believe that laughter and good conversation are the basic building blocks for any relationship.

So, now that you have read this, I’m going to borrow the famous line from the great actor Clint Eastwood and say to you “Make My Day”.


   Clearly, from his criminal activity, he's not the brightest bulb in the package, but he might want to rethink his movie references.


I'm told I need an exit strategy.

I'm told ad agencies don't need writers anymore.

I'm told there's even less need for 44 year old writers. And what do I plan to do in five years when I become 45?

There's validity to all these statements. But the truth, the sad truth, is I haven't made any contingency plans.

I haven't started studying for my real estate license and have no interest in wasting my weekends at Open Houses entertaining lookyloos while ignoring the awful smells emanating from someone's unsellable home.

I haven't been taking classes to get a teaching credential. Nor do I have the patience to deal with witless students.

"What don't you get? Just do it the way I did. Stop asking questions. And put away the damn iPhone."

And finally, I haven't sufficiently funded my 401k plans. In retrospect I should not have sunk my money into Betamax, Netscape and a new Radio Shack franchise. Who could have predicted people would no longer need pocket transistor radios?

I suppose I'm going to have to turn my creative faculties on their head, and using nothing but my perseverance and imagination, figure my way out of this conundrum.

A buddy, a fellow copywriter, had an interesting thought.

He suggested getting a full time job again. At this stage in my career it would have to be a high level position with a multi-year contract. Then, knowing how averse I am to being on staff, he suggested I drink myself into a lucrative early termination.

His plan was simple.

I would drink. Not a lot at first. A cocktail or two at lunch time. Then a month into the position, I could add a mid-afternoon nip. Followed quickly by morning beers and pre-lunch Bloody Mary's. A couple of failed new business pitches and the agency would have no choice but to fire me and pay out my remaining contract.

It sounded promising, but I had seen others drink themselves into a daily stupor, only to get promoted and handed more managerial responsibility. And God knows I didn't want that.

Then he mentioned Clown Make-Up.
The idea was similar and stunningly beautiful.

In my first week of steady employment, I would apply an ever-so-slight hint of clown make-up to my face. It would hardly be noticeable. Two weeks later, when my fellow employees had become accustomed to my countenance, I would ramp up the rouge, the lipstick and the eye shadow by a mere 5%. Not enough to set off any alarms, but just enough to ease the transition to the next imperceptible phase.

Week by week, my morning make up ritual would last a little longer. Until at about the 6 month mark, someone would look across the conference room table and notice the Executive Creative Director (me) was in full blown Bozo mode.

This plan is nothing short of genius.
And as a bonus will provide me with hours of blogging material.

I better start freshening up my resume.

Soon, my buddy Paul will be making online site reservations for our July 4th camping trip. That's seven months away, you say. Yes it is, but here in Southern California, the land of too many fucking people, you have to plan ahead. If you don't, you'll be pitching a tent between a bear box and the campground dumpster.

There's a sushi restaurant we like on Sawtelle Blvd. We made our reservations for a Saturday night.
In March.

Of course, this long lead time gives my wife ample opportunity to start crossing items off The List. Each year, without fail, we haul up a half dozen of these useless Citronella candles. Supposedly, the burning of Citronella oil repels the bloodthirsty mosquitoes.

Bullshit.

Unless the mosquito decides to set down on the burning wick and thus subject himself to a little self-immolation, these candles do nothing. Personally, I like my repellents like my cough medications, that is, they should contain some chemical(s) the FDA has declared potentially hazardous or addictive.

This doesn't stop my wife, or the others in our camping group, from swearing by them. Not surprisingly, Citronella falls into the same fairy tale category as organic fruit, past-life memories, and Congressional bi-partisanship.

Last week I watched a program on CNN, I know, I should be ashamed to admit that. Lisa Ling had travelled to the jungle to watch some addle-brained Americans go on a Ayahuasca weekend retreat.

There, under the moist canopy of a Peruvian rainforest and the spiritual guidance of a "shaman" (oh please), these wayward souls paid top dollar to drink a brew of banisteriopsis caapi.

Chemists say the plant contains DMT, dimethlytryptamine, and like LSD can induce severe hallucinations lasting up to six hours. I would suggest the hallucinations don't stop there.

Lisa Ling interviewed many of the participants, who after much vomiting, reported:

"I feel totally cleansed."

"It's like I was being born again."

"I was expecting to see my spirit animals. They didn't show up at first. But then they did. And now I know they live inside my. And guide me. And protect me."

The spirit animals should have warned you not to do an interview with CNN and making a total ass of yourself in front of millions of people.

I'm not sure how Lisa Ling kept a straight face. I may not be the most perceptive man on the planet, my wife can chime in on that, but Lisa looked like she wanted to burst out laughing.

One shaggy-haired participant looked her in the eye, and while stroking his soul patch said:

"I feel like I've reached a higher level of vibration."

If I thought reaching a higher level of vibration had any therapeutic effect and could ease my mid-life neurosis, I would save myself the airfare to Lima, Peru, pass on the self-inflicted hurling and hop on top of my Sears 7.6 cubic feet, front-loading Kenmore Dryer.


This being Thanksgiving Day weekend you might be expecting me to prattle on about how special it was to have my daughter return home for a visit from the University of Washington .

While it was nice to have her, my house was filled was something even more precious: 8 lbs. of leftover turkey, a fridge full of imported beers including some high-alcohol content Chimay Ale and a DVR spilling over with a bounty of NFL and college football games which would all impact the upcoming playoffs and the all important entry into the Lime-Flavored, Oven-Baked Tostitos Fiesta Bowl.

You can imagine my reaction when my wife tried to drag me from my plenteous Man Cave. To see a movie, no less.

Personally I don't think there's much reason to visit a movie theater. And there hasn't been since the studios released Stay Tuned, the inspired John Ritter comedy classic from the early 90's, but I humored my wife and asked what she wanted to see?

"The Theory of Everything," she replied, "the Stephen Hawking movie."

You want me to walk away from the nail biting gridiron action between Virginia and Virginia Tech to watch a chick flick about some brainiac who believes in parallel universes?

I'm still trying to picture how the writer pitched this one to the studio.

"It's a Rom-Com meets Quantum Physics meets Rudy."

Before you write me off as some unenlightened lughead, if you haven't already, you should know I take a great interest in science and meta-physics. In fact I started out as a Calculus major in college and had visions of pursuing a career in Math, that is until I found out I could make more money by writing stupid marketing material for large corporations.

Last week I was watching a show that touched on Hawking and his multi-universe theory. The incredibly oversimplified version revolves around the notion of an infinite time space continuum. And within that lies the concept that our world is one of many. Furthermore, each of these other worlds is the result of an alternate choice, you or I made.

That's every decision, large and small.

For instance, let's say you had rye toast for breakfast instead of sourdough. According to Hawking, there exists an entire universe that is based on that innocuous bread choice. Somewhere, in a galaxy far, far away, you are eating sourdough toast and Virginia stops Virginia Tech at the 42 yard line and walks away with the win.

I find this take on infinity and the concept of slightly parallel universes quite fascinating.

It means that 7,931,478 light years away there is a leaner, meaner version of me, with a full head of hair.

He didn't sell his Apple stock prematurely and is sitting on millions of dollars.

And when he isn't swimming in his Olympic sized lap pool in his backyard that is 10 miles from the nearest annoying neighbor, he is being tended to by a crew of naked fitness models skilled in the semi-painful art of deep-tissue Thai Massage.

Of course in this distant Schrodinger world, Rich Siegel's wife is a vegetarian. So the only thing in fridge is half a carcass of uneaten Tofu-rkey.



Today's post will piss you off.

At least, it should.

It's hard to fathom how much of our money, those Federal deductions we see subtracted from our paychecks every two weeks, gets wasted in areas of the world still stuck in the 7th century. And I'll show you exactly what I mean.

I did a little digging online and found this highly charged illustration.

The picture above is what 100 million dollars looks like next to man who could only afford some off-brand sneakers and a crappy red shirt form the local Target. By the way, those are stacks of hundred dollar bills. And the palette measures 4 feet by 4 feet, assuming palettes haven't changed since my days of driving a forklift in lovely Gardena, CA making a mere $7.62 an hour.

Now, consider the disastrous wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Wars, which I mistakenly supported in 2003, mostly fueled by post 9-11 anger. Those wars have cost us thousands of soldiers, precious lives of our best and brightest, that can never be replaced.

We've also dumped $4 Trillion Dollars in a part of the world that can best be described as God's own taint. Using the same illustrative method as above, here's what $4 Trillion Dollars looks like:




That's the same dude on the left, with the emo haircut and the Wrangler mom jeans.


This, in no uncertain  terms, is why your kids are not going to a private university. It's why you're not driving a new car with the self-repairing paint and blind side detection system. And it's why you will be drinking shitty office coffee and eating free bagels on Friday for a long time to come because you will not be able to retire until you're 82 years old.

What do we have to show for our $4 Trillion Dollars?

We have nothing.

The US trained Iraqi army, once considered the world's fiercest army, refuses to fight. When confronted with ISIS, they tore off their uniforms, dropped their weapons and ran for the hills. Probably to hide behind the Yazidis.

Women, when they're not being stoned or having acid thrown in their face for going to school, are draped in bedsheets, morning, noon and night. Not because they are held in the highest regard, but because they are property and an Afghani man is free to do whatever he chooses with his property.

And on every corner of this vast area, you'll find a mosque or a madrassa, where the faithful are taught the precepts of jihad and unrelenting hatred for kaffir (that's you and I) from their Holy Koran. Books, no doubt purchased with money deducted from your paystub May 15th -- May 31st.

Anti-Zionists like to make the point that we give Israel about $3 billion a year. You'd need a microscope to find $3 billion in the diagram above. And at least we get a return on that money, in the form of new technologies, advancements in medicine and a dependable ally in the fight against religious Fascism.

In Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan, Libya, Turkey, et al, we have received nothing.

Nothing.

It would be as if my wife went to Vons and dropped $1000 on groceries and then returned from the store with a soup cracker.

Not even the soup cracker.

Just the cellophane wrapper the soup cracker came in.


Recently, I sat down for a leisurely chat with an ad industry veteran. Turns out he is also a rabid fan of R17 so naturally, because of my insatiable need for validation, I hung on his every word.

I had mentioned that it had been a while since I put any new work in my book, or my online portfolio to be more accurate.

He stopped me mid-sentence.

"Are you crazy? Your blog is your book. You don't need new spots or outdoor boards or banner ads. You put up new material almost every day. It's digital. It's current. And it's probably the best writing you've ever done."

Here was a man who was also writing my checks at the time, so who was I to argue? Though to be honest, not every posting (this one for example) is what I would call "bookworthy." But I do subscribe to the volume theory of writing, that is for every ten pieces I write, one is good enough to make the grade.

This quantity to quality axiom does not appear to be in good favor those days.

It seems anything and everything that makes it to the Telly or the Internet also makes it to a FaceBook newsfeed. It doesn't matter whether it's good or not, in most cases not, it just matters that it was done.

And so we are treated to a cavalcade of work that is flat, uninspired, has no trace of an idea, or a deadly combination of all of the above.

Am I guiltess?
No, I am not.

Years ago I posted a homestore.com spot that I dubbed, "The Worst Commercial I Have Ever Produced." And it was. A million dollar, Joe Pytka-directed colossal piece of shit.

Had I been more diligent with my file keeping I could have continued the series. Here's one from the vintage folder:





That's crazy bad. But the funny thing is every time AIS would run that commercial the phones rang off the hook.

Believe me if I could find more bad work from the early days I would be an uploading fool. Hell, I'm 44 years old, what have I got to lose? Besides, as my wife often says, I lack the genetic material for embarassment.

Some of you younger hipsters and hipsterettes do not. And I would posit that not everything you do is something everyone should see.

By the way, if you recently posted some 'questionable' work and you're wondering if I'm directing this post at you, I probably am.


The picture above was screen grabbed off a photojournalist's page and his exploration of Equality .  Having spent time as a short order cook as well as an apprentice at a fancy French restaurant, it spoke to me.

There were other fascinating juxtapositions, but you can check them out after you finish reading today's piece, which is, if you haven't guessed about equality.

In September I dropped my older daughter off at the University of Washington. And last year I wrote several posts about the journey to college and all its incumbent emotional adventures.

I would be remiss as a father, and in violation of the Sibling Act 19:31 A/b 432, if I didn't give equal time to my youngest daughter who will be flying the coop next September. Leaving me two empty rooms in the house and ample space to expand my collection of Caganers.



(Thanks to Kelly Fitzpatrick for bringing this one back from Spain)


It's still early in the process, but Abby has already received acceptance letters from the University of Arizona and the University of Colorado. The rejection letters are still to come, but you can imagine the relief, we, my wife and I, experienced with the first two positive responses.

Particularly since my youngest is given to drama and, with the slightest provocation, can throw a tantrum like a 5 year old who has just dropped his lollipop in the doggie doo.

I know some of you with fatter wallets and better breeding have already got your noses pointed towards Pluto. Arizona and Colorado?

"Those are hardly Ivy League Schools. What's she gonna major in Beer Bongs and Hemp?"

And that's fine, because here at the Siegel household we don't put on airs. And we're not particularly fond of labels. Or anything remotely to do with status. If the converse were true, we'd be in a lot of trouble.

I'm told my alma mater, Syracuse University, has cache in the world of communication and advertising, but now that I've been around the block a few times and know the industry for what it is, I find that rather embarrassing.

So yes, I'm proud of my daughter.

Earlier this year she had been failing an Honors Pre-Calculus Class. She stubbornly refused to ask for help. Then we had a sit down with the math teacher, who laid out a path to success that would require some hard work and determination. Well, the pit bull doesn't fall far from the apple tree. On her most recent midterm she scored a 97.

We also found out from her English teacher that my little girl is quite the writer. "Dark, brooding and funny," said her English teacher.

This news is both troubling and exciting.

On the one hand I know how hard it is to turn a dime into a dollar using nothing but the imagination and a computer keyboard. On the other hand, who's to say my daughter wouldn't surpass me as America's 7,934th best copywriter. After all she has been given a gift. A leg up. And should she decide to be a writer she has in her toolbox an invaluable asset that I never had. A bottomless well of comedic inspiration and divine dysfunction.

She went to Catholic High School.


Oh no, you're thinking, we've reached that point with Round Seventeen wherein Rich pulls out ads from the past that never went anywhere.

Well, no.

And, yes.

I had lunch last week with my old Chiat partner, John Shirley. We met at Playa Del Rey's only Chinese restaurant. I'm not sure the place has a name. I'm not even sure it deserves one. The food isn't very good. But the portions are outstanding. And the Kung Pao Chicken is prepared with lots of those dried fiery hot red peppers I'm told you're not supposed to eat.

John was already sitting in the booth when I got there. He sprung a little surprise on me. A 150 page deck that we had done for the Hardee's pitch back in 2001. I'm gonna assume the statute of limitations has run out on me sharing some of the ideas.

Besides, upper management at Chiat didn't love the ideas then, I'm sure they don't have much use for them now.

In any case, our plan was to bring back Lil Chef. He was the Hardee's spokesman in the early 1960's and we were always fond of tapping into old brand DNA. It had built-in authenticity.

We were also very fond of Jack from the Jack in the Box campaign and knew that a founder strategy for fast food was a solid approach.

Lil Chef was different in that, at least in our incarnation, he was very much the reluctant spokesperson. He had retired a long time ago and was content to rest his 7 foot plastic body (think Bob's Big Boy), sit by the pool and nurse highballs of Kentucky bourbon.

That's right, we wanted Lil Chef to be a curmudgeonly old drunk. The first ever on national TV.

He wasn't interested in toy giveaways, in-store playgrounds or any of the nonsense associated with other fast food joints. Lil Chef was about putting out great, homemade food.

He wasn't always nice about it.
Or diplomatic.
Or even sober.

As John and I paged through the deck we found some really funny spots. Clever ways to jam in the obligatory food porn. Even some internal employee retention work that would have given the kids that worked at Hardee's a reason to smile and be happy they were on Lil Chef's team.

You know, besides the promise of getting at some of his bourbon stash.

The poorly scanned pictured above is just one sample. By the way, before the planners and account people got hold of it, it said "damn" not "darn."

If we did the ad today it would say, "Too fuckin' early!"

As many of you know, in addition to R17 I also maintain another blog, Kim Jung Fun, on Tumblr.

It's not so much a blog, as it is a showcase for odd PR pictures coming out of the DPRK. I like to give them silly captions.

Some people play paddleball.
Others knit quilts.
This is what I do.

As social media goes, Tumblr is quite unique. I still don't have the hang of it but I make a habit of following anyone who has taken the trouble to follow Kim Jung Fun. And so, unlike R17, the people in my Tumblr crowd are all strangers. They post strange pictures. Including the questionable light switch above.

It goes without saying that I've always been fascinated with Jesus paraphernalia.

Years ago, I ran across novelty Jesus Sport statues . And though I've never been a big hockey fan, decided I needed to have this:




I photographed the statue in front of some personal property to prove I actually own this piece of art and didn't just screen grab it off the Internet. Although I'm sure it's hard to believe those two beautiful little girls belong to me.

Why hockey, you may be asking.

Well, I found it interesting that while Jesus could walk on water, when the water was frozen, he needed skates just like Gordy Howe. Here, the Almighty One delivers a brutal hip check to the Ginger skating for the red team.

Naturally, all this sent me on an Internet Jesus Chase where I found this monstrosity:


Jesus Christ, what were the people in this South Florida church thinking?

I know, that's a bit of an oxymoron, as many of you have already jumped ahead, people in South Florida don't do a lot of thinking. But don't jump too far ahead.

Because the only thing more shocking than the construction of this audacious monstrosity was its inevitable demise. Make sure you stick around until 1:31. If this country were to elect a woman for President, Sandy Smith would get my vote.

I became a copywriter in 1984. Since then, I've met all kinds of creative people. More, I would argue, than the average 44 year old.

I've met the Good German. You know this person. He is or she is willing to do whatever management wants them to do.

"Cram these 8 unique selling points into this 30 second commercial."

"You got it boss."

"When you're done with that, give me a 15 second cut down. With the same 8 points."

"No problemo."

Then there's Petey Politician. Sadly, you've come across this shifty person too. He or she is always two moves ahead of you. And operates in that vague netherworld behind closed doors or after hours drinking establishments.

Petey Politician is so skilled with the back-stabbing knife that he or she can wield it out in the open, even while reviewing work at a creative gang bang.

"This work is great. And it seems to be on strategy. But is it ON strategy?"

A subtle change in inflection, but Karl Rove will tell you, that's all it takes. Next thing you know, your campaign is going in the storage files and your rival's campaign is going to the storyboard phase.

And then there's Herman Hardhead, the Passionate Purist. My favorite.

If you haven't known or met these folks you're missing out on the fun this business has to offer. Because these are the people, who, through their actions, their refusal to give one inch, their volcanic tantrums, give birth to the stories that get told at raucous Christmas parties or 15 hour shoots in the flats of Ridgewood Crest.

In accordance with R17 no-name policy I won't divulge his identity, but I remember one particularly short-fused writer, who came to Chiat/Day via Wieden & Kennedy. When it came time to defend his work, he Defended his work. First with his sailor's tongue. And then, more often than not, with his well-calloused fists.

Furniture got busted.
Foamcore boards got torn in two.
And panicked Account people and planners left the room crying.

Good times.

Though not skilled in the art of pugilism, I've also been known to be obstinate. However, pushed, shoved and threatened with unemployment, I've often folded like a cheap hotel wedding chair.

I have a friend who is a bonafide Purist. He refuses to suffer the Death of a Thousand Cuts. I vividly recall the time he was asked to make a small creative change, a change he was convinced would compromise the spot that had spent months in the gestation period. Whereas most people would have acceded to the tiny revisions. He wouldn't budge and stood his ground.

"I'd rather kill the concept and come up with a new idea."

Legendary.
A demonstrable act of courage, conviction and uncompromising creativity.
An inspiration, really.

Six months later, the client came up with a new agency.

Did you have a good weekend?
I did, sort of.

I went to a memorial.
The second in the course of a month.
I'm hoping there's not a third anytime soon.

We gathered on a warm, sunny Sunday afternoon, the kind of afternoon that makes East Coasters, Midwesterners and Northern Californians jealous, to say farewell to our good friend and editor extraordinaire, Rick Shambaugh.

Like the previous memorial, there was an outstanding turnout. Similarly, it was another cherished opportunity to be among my old Chiat/Day colleagues, who as many noted, are more like family. There was an undeniable warmth in the air that was not attributable to any Indian Summer or Santa Ana winds.

Being with them brought back a flood of memories. Of late nights and weekends in the old warehouse next to Gold's Gym, Antioch, the Binocular Building and of course, Playa. These were the people that built the Chiat/Day legacy.

There was modest representation from the Creative Department, but most in attendance were Producers, Editors and staff from VBE, quite frankly, the best in the business.

It wasn't until I left Chiat/Day and started working at other agencies, with other in-house production people, that I realized how talented, professional and tight, these people were, and continue to be.

Rick was part and parcel of this team.

As I sat and listened to the eulogies, tales of Rick's missionary adventures in Africa, camping in the Mojave desert, working at a nuclear power plant, I was reminded, fittingly, of a phrase I heard in college. A film professor told us how in Italy, people subscribed to the notion of  'fate un cinema.'

Make a movie.

Your life, it is said, should be like a movie. It should be larger, more expressive, with lower lows and soaring highs. Your life should include stories that other people will talk about, laugh about and cry about.

If it wasn't apparent before, it certainly was yesterday. Rick led that kind of life.

I would always catch snippets of it while we sat in his edit bay, mostly while the Avid machine was rendering. Or buffering. Or transferring tape to D-9. All these years in the business, and I still don't have a clue about the terminology of film and video.

We spent hours, days and weeks in that smelly little room. It's why I selected this picture, above the hundreds of others that are floating around on Facebook. It's the way I remember Rick, looking at the back of his head while he drilled down on the rough cut.

To be honest, I never had the stamina to lock myself in a bay and piece together a story frame by painful frame. Rick did. He started as an errand boy and by the process of osmosis and Pennsylvania-born working class determination, taught himself into the profession. He got so good that often times my partner and I would simply hand him the script or some stupid corporate jack-off manifesto and walk away.

We'd show up later and it would be done.
Start to finish.
A polished piece of perfect communication.

Well, that is until Lee Clow had his revisions.

It is hard to believe that this gentle, stubborn, sometimes-quirky soul is no longer with us.

Whether he knew it or not, Rick, a film editor by trade, embraced the idea of 'fate un cinema.' But like all great movies that manage to transcend the screen and take you out of your world, this movie, Rick's movie, ended way too soon.


I've made no secret of my admiration for Mark Fenske.

Mark is a professor at VCU now, but when he made a living as a copywriter he wrote unlike any other. Perhaps that's why his name was all over the awards books, which made it a whole lot easier to mimic his style.

In addition to teaching, Mark maintains -- and I use that word sparingly -- a blog . He puts up an entry every month or so, which means he has about two regular readers, me and whenever he does an infrequent spellcheck.

His most recent entry however struck a chord.

He tells his students, aspiring copywriters and art directors:

"Just do the opposite of everything you see."

His reasoning is simple. 99% of everything you see on TV, Twitter, Facebook, etc. is utter crap. That is undeniable. If you want to do something good, don't do crap.

It is for me, the first litmus test any work I present.

If it sounds like, looks like, or smells like anything that's out there I don't want to have any part of it.

If only clients bought into the same criteria. They don't. Their rationale is equally simple. If it doesn't sound or look or smell like anything out there they get nervous. Because it is different.

And, if a campaign dares to be different it also, by definition, flirts with failure. And as much as corporate yahoos and motivational masturbators would have us believe in the redemptive power of failure, the truth is Chief Marketing Officers with multiple mortgages and a sweet corner office will run away from risk faster than the Democrats ran away from Obamacare.

As a result we get shit, shitty and shittier work.

Special effects dreck.

Overwrought manifestos.

Or happy smiling millineals in contrived situations speaking committee-written adtalk to other happy smiley millineals whose manicured beards should be pulled out by hand and shoved down their precious organic-only pieholes.

Sadly, it's also why there's little chance we'll see work like this  anymore. Authentic, insightful and delightfully-small.

I'm sure Fenske would agree that God blessed the Creative Director who has the balls to ask for small.

I'm often accused of being the busiest freelancer in all of Los Angeles.

Whenever headhunters or creative service managers call, I frequently have to decline because I am booked elsewhere.

I enjoy being busy, namely because it puts food on my table and keeps the hungry Accounts Payable folks from the University of Washington off my ass. Putting a kid through college is expensive, fill up those 529 accounts you young parents.

But after 10 months of solid steady work through the bulk of 2014, I decided to take a little "me" time. I didn't do any smiling and dialing. I didn't alert folks of my availability. And I didn't work the network.

Fortunately, the phone cooperated.

Of course I am cursed with an unholy relationship with my computer.

So instead of doing what I should have done, I spent the better part of the last three weeks, waking up early, drinking copious amounts of coffee and clacking away on the keyboard like some harried cub Metro reporter on a midnight deadline.

I should have rewarded myself with some down time. Gone off in the car on a road trip. Played some golf. Or read some books at the beach, where, sorry East Coast friends, it is still balmy and in the high 80's.

I didn't do any of that. Perhaps because there have been three untimely passings from my Chiat/Day family. Three unmistakable reminders that our time here is short. And there are no guarantees. So, I've recommitted myself to write more -- with the hope of getting another book published. Due in large part to the various emails and feedback I get from you.

"I love your blog."

"I wake up and read R17 first thing in the morning."

"You're a sanctimonious self-righteous, self-obsessed pig. Keep up the good work."

The routine is not at all unpleasant.

I shit.
I shower.
I don't shave, my beard is surprisingly white for a 44 year old man and has given me the look of a young Walt Whitman.
I make fast work of my online chess opponents.
And then I rattle off 1000 to 1500 words a day.
About 258 of them are actually usable.

At the end of the day I like to get some exercise in and have been walking from my house to very popular Baldwin Hills Overlook Stairs. I spotted the sign (pictured above) at a vacant storefront off Jefferson. And you know me, I'm a sucker for a good cheap laugh.

From the ridiculous to the sublime, you also can't beat the views from the top of the hill.


A few weeks ago, I mentioned the three sweetest words a freelancer can ever hear:

"The strategy changed."

Sweet, because if the strategy has changed it means the work is wrong. Not wrong because of anything I or the other creatives have done. Or didn't do. It's simply wrong because the client has changed their mind.

When you're on staff that can be pretty demoralizing. It means starting over. It means all that thinking, all that crappy pizza, all those football games missed because you spent the weekend in the office, was all for naught.

Same goes for a freelancer, but it also means getting paid twice.
And who doesn't like getting paid twice?

Naturally, if you're an agency president or CEO, you'd like clients to stop changing the strategy. But don't count on that happening anytime soon.

Strategies, like everything else in the corporate world, start at the bottom. They're jammed out by junior clients sitting down with junior planners and junior account executives. More often than not these are the same twenty somethings who, five years earlier, were all gathered at the same fraternity parties playing beer pong and doing keg stands.

There's a chance they'll get the strategy right but there's also a chance my hair will grow back or that I will be able to slip into my 32 inch waist dungarees.

While these juniors haven't had much real business world experience, they have learned the cardinal rule for conducting ad agency business in the year 2014:

"Don't be difficult."

No one likes a contrarian. I can speak from experience on that. Confrontation, even of the most constructive sort, has no place in today's conference rooms.

You want to be a boat rocker, a pot stirrer or even a pirate, you get yourself a job in chartered accountancy.

The key, and millions of fast risers on linked in.com can tell you, to maintaining a good client/agency relationship is to know when to say no -- never.

Pushing back and hashing things out until they make sense, well, those are the practices of dinosaurs. Moreover, they lead agencies down a dangerous path that can only lead to one thing, the dreaded Review.

Nope.

Better to nod your head, take copious notes, come back to the agency and tell the creatives exactly what the client wants. Then a week later, do it all over again.

Because the strategy always changes.

The process never does.

You Gentiles are crazy.

I wanted the use the word goyim but my wife insists that's not polite. She doesn't care for the title of today's piece either.

You should hear yourselves, particularly last week.

"Christ Almighty they're already starting with the X-mas ads."

"Didn't I just take down the damned Christmas lights?"

"Ho, ho, holy shit I'm not ready for this again "

Those are not verbatim quotes, but I think you'll agree there's a lot of hostility in the crisp early November air. Personally, I find it shocking. If my understanding is correct, Christmas is the most cherished holiday on the Christian calendar.

For the most part all this hostility is self-directed. That is, it's not coming from us, your older Hebraic brothers.

My people have learned how to deal with the obscene annual display of crass commercialism. We've developed our own rituals; skiing, traveling, movie-going and dining at hole in the wall Chinese restaurants, leaving us largely oblivious to your unsavory Savior birthday celebrations.

We've adapted. And if I may speak for the Tribe at large, we find it all so amusing. Particularly how the political correctness movement has given rise to the media-driven War on Christmas.

You see, it's not Jews who are insisting on the use of the more secular Happy Holidays in lieu of the more classic Merry Christmas. You want to put Santa and his red nosed reindeer on the roof of the White House, go for it. And we certainly have no desire to take the Christ out of Christmas.

In fact, we insist you put him back in. Strategically, it's good PR.

Jesus is often referred to as King of the Jews. Where was he born and raised, Bethlehem and Nazareth. Ipso facto, the King and his people lived, breathed and inhabited the land of Israel, a country so many these days are hell-bent on de-legitimizing.

So deck the halls with boughs of holly, whatever the hell that means. Break out the ugly sweaters. Get those antlers on the SUV. Tis the season to be jolly. Put a smile on your face.

It could be worse. Christmas could be a Jewish Holiday.

Think about that. You'd be eating pancakes made of flour and gritty sand to remind you of the wandering Mary and Joseph had to endure to find a suitable place to give birth.

Instead of gifts under a pine tree your ungrateful children would get small gold wrapped coins filled with frankincense and myrrh.

And every year you'd build a manger scene in your backyard. And your family would spend 12 miserable days in the manger. They'd eat bitter herbs (because we love our bitter herbs), sleep on mattresses made of hay and kvetch about the spotty wi-fi off your neighbor's inappropriately named network -- Scotty's House of Chubby Porn.

So cheer up and thank your lucky stars it's not Tu B'Shevat.


Lim Chung (far right) has difficult time keeping straight face as Dear Leader explains, “Yes, my refrigerator is running.”




The camera doesn't lie and sometimes the  camera catches Kim's henchmen  in awkward moments.

     These are the most telling photos and always merit my attention. I love the look on the face of the older man on the extreme right. It is fascinating in so many ways.


Speaking of faces, recently FaceBook has begun automatically tagging the pictures with the names of many of my Asian friends. I want to apologize in advance for that miscue.


I don't think you all look alike, but Facebook does.




"I like this youtube thingie. Let’s watch this one, ‘Two Girls, One Cup."


"Yes, I said a 10 foot high chocolate waterfall in the master bedroom. Do you not see that I am holding the Big Pointy Stick of Instant Gratification?"

One of the odd things about daily jokes about  Kim Jung Un  (by the way, like Mohammar Quadaffi, there are many ways of spelling Kim's name, I picked this one at the very beginning before news channels selected the alternate Kim Jong Un, so I'm sticking with it) is I never know which ones will be popular and which ones won't.


This particular picture and caption never caught on.
But, it's always been one of my favorites.
So I'm posting it again.
If you still don't like it, well, tough titties.

Here's another I like:





Kim Jung Un wants to conquer the USA,
not only for our natural resources,   but for our precious factories.


Guards escort a Kim Jung Un impersonator to prison. Authorities grew suspicious when the man declined dessert, adding, “I’m not hungry.”




This was one of the very early pictures. Believe it or not I'm having a difficult time choosing from the  very extensive archives  which dates back to April 2013.

   A sad reminder that I need to get out of the house more or take up a hobby.




In preparation for the eventual North American land assault,
a young North Korean soldier trains on a tank simulator.

Taking advantage of the warm natural light at the Pyongyang fishery, Dear Leader eagerly shows off his new peacoat from J. Crew.



Know who else enjoys these Kim Jung Un photos?

My old boss, legendary advertising icon Lee Clow. This is quite flattering as Lee has made a living tossing out good ideas in favor of great ones.

He's even gone so far as to "favorite" some of my Kim Jung Fun   tweets on Twitter. If I could only get him to hit the ReTweet button instead, so that his 8 gazillion followers would see it, I might be able to swing a book deal.

I like to imagine Lee strolling over to his computer, sipping his coffee, clicking on my tumblr page, smiling and thinking to himself…

"Oooo, I wonder what kind of funny stuff Brian has posted today."



Here's another from the archive:


Health Inspector asks Dear Leader to refrain from stuffing crackers in his pocket. And assures him there will be free samples after the tour.


Last month, we hit an all time high in web traffic, more than 11,789 page hits/visits/eyeballs coming to RoundSeventeen.  I can never make sense of of Internet jargon.

I only know that more people are stopping by. And that faintest hint of validation is all I need.

To celebrate this new benchmark, we're kicking off with another Theme Week.

As some of you might know, I maintain two blogs.

RoundSeventeen and Kim Jung Fun . I would promote the Kim Jung Fun blog on social media but Facebook hasn't worked out the html interface thingamajig and every time I try to put up a link it shows up as spam.

This week I've decided to reach into the archives and pull some of my favorite jabs at the child king of North Korea and republish them here for your amusement.

Sure it would be nice to build up a following for the Kim Jung Fun tumblr blog, but I'm doing this for more selfish reasons. You see I've been working on some other writing projects (more on that at a later date) and it's taking a lot of my time and energy.

Frankly to maintain my low standards on both would require me to abuse opiates and caffeine. And I'm not about to start abusing caffeine.

Here's one from a long time ago:




North Korea launches missile; lands on other side of North Korea.

It appears my 5 part series on Homestore has turned into a 6-parter. I apologize.

Having traversed the country and shot all the various homes, we still needed one more crazy house to complete the series. The research was exhaustive. My partner, John Shirley, vowed that we would finish this project in style and combed the Internet for outrageous homes in Hawaii.

My dogged persistence must have rubbed off on him. Because he found us our last house.


After a silky smooth direct flight to the Big Island, we board a van, pinch ourselves and head to our hotel, the swanky Mauna Kea. I've been to Kauai, Maui and Oahu many times. We love it. But there is nothing quite as amazing as being in an expensive Hawaiian resort on the company dime.

Somebody (Chiat/Day and Homestore) was paying me to be here for a week!

"Yeah, hello Room Service, I'd like a pitcher of the papaya juice."

"The small one or the big one?"

"The $48 one."

"Excellent sir, and how many glasses will you need? 4? 6?"

"Oh no, just the one."

The following morning, we drive to the other side of the island, exit the van and enter a monster 4x4 truck, the only vehicle powerful enough to make the treacherous descent down the narrow mountain road into the Waipio Valley.

Crossing taro patches and knee-high streams we criss cross 6 miles into the rainforest where we meet Linda Beech, a 73 year old former TV actress who owns the Waipio Valley Tree House.


Along the path of this incredible journey we had met many characters, one crazier than the next. But Linda was crazy interesting. She had a PhD. in Philosophy, had travelled the world extensively, was a regular actress in a Japanese sitcom and exhibited the kind of fortitude you just don't expect from a septuagenarian.

I could not possibly do Linda Beech, the 1900-foot waterfall in the backyard or the entire experience, any justice.

But this snippet   might.


Months after completing the film, we find ourselves in Park City, UT for the Sundance Film Festival. Hollywood assholes are crawling the streets, making deals and shmoozing. We, on the other hand, the Chiat/Day crew have the slopes to ourselves and are living the good life. The movie premieres to excellent reviews and the grateful Homestore client reciprocates by staging a private party at one of Park City's most exclusive restaurants.

It is here that we -- a team of less than a dozen -- drink more than $2000 worth of Cabernet Sauvignon.


While the film makes its way through art house theaters across the country, the commercials remain unseen. There is no money in the budget for media, we are told. And now it becomes painfully clear why. As mentioned at the very beginning of this series, Stuart and his gaggle of unethical Yes Men, have been syphoning money away from the company  and into their very own personal bank accounts.

And what money there is, turns out to be ill-gotten.

Once again, the Fickle Finger of Fate has intervened and dropped a turd in my career punchbowl. The commercials, which were years in the making, were only seen in a few test markets. And never given the exposure they deserved. You can see most of them online or in my portfolio  if you're so inclined.

But the truth is we got so much more than a few clever TV spots for our reel.

We witnessed the Shakespearean rise and fall of a company and its pigheaded founder, who is due to be released from Federal prison some time in 2015.

We had the opportunity to travel across the country, meet fascinating people and make a film that merited two thumbs up from Roger Ebert and The Other Guy.

And we came away with a story, of an adventure few in advertising can rival.

I'd give anything to do it all over again.

The Atlas E 65 Series was the first ICBM developed and deployed in the United States. Built at the height of the Cold War, the Atlas was 100 times more powerful than the atomic bomb exploded over Nagasaki. During the 1960's the Atlas missiles, launched by satellite relay, were hidden underground in silos scattered throughout the heartland of America.

After the Cold war, the missiles were decommissioned and the sites were auctioned off to adventurous homeowners.

Including Ed and Diane Peden, who turned an abandoned 7 story underground silo into their home.

The Missile Home was our fourth installment for Home Movie; the previous three have been discussed earlier this week.

As a fan of history and someone who has taken great interest in the conflicts of the 19th century, I was extremely excited about visiting this now-vacated missile silo. It was odd to think that at one time several high ranking Soviet officers had targeted this are for destruction in a possible pre-emptive first strike.

Had the Russians visited the place they would scrapped those plans and said to hell with them, anyone who wants to live in Topeka has already been damned by the devil.

And by that, I mean it was HOT.

I grew up in Upstate New York and knew of all kinds of heat and humidity. But Topeka, Kansas, in the middle of summer, on a windy day, was something unto its own. This was God's own convection pizza oven.

Frankly, I expected the surrounding fields of wheat to burst into spontaneous combustion.

The only relief was to get out of the searing wind. And the only way to do that was to get in the elevator with our host, Mr. Peden and go underground.

Here, he and his wife, spent thousands of dollars and thousands of man hours tearing out the ancient analog computers and military paraphernalia and replacing them with wicker furniture and LaZ-Boy recliners.

Surreal doesn't even begin to describe the experience. Feeling like you were buried alive is a much more accurate description. It was claustrophobic. It was dark. And it was dank.

I've come to understand the word dank has been appropriated by stoners and hipsters and has come to mean something of unusually high quality. But I am using the word dank in its original form, meaning clammy, unaired and musty.

As if that were not unpleasant enough, our hosts, who were very sweet Midwesterners, insisted we stay for one of the rituals they conducted every week in the basement (an odd term to use considering the whole house was a basement) -- The Eastern Kansas Peace Drum Circle.


I'm going to assume you know enough about me to ascertain my disposition towards drum circles.

And so it went.

Above ground, 130 degrees of whipping wind and scorching sun. Below ground, a modern day catacomb accompanied by the endless pounding of rhythm-less white people on bongo drums. Two sides of the coin otherwise known as Hell.

Side note: Topeka, Kansas is the home of the late Fred Phelps of Westboro Baptist Church Fame. Is it any wonder why that man was so damn angry?


Coming up tomorrow, the dream of every copywriter and art director who have ever worked in advertising -- OPEN ON A TROPICAL ISLE IN THE SOUTH PACIFIC.


Before we continue the fourth installment of the Home Movie travelogue, it should be noted that back at homestore.com headquarters the slimy executives were positively exuberant.

You see they had put out on IPO on homestore stock which opened at $21 dollars a share. In the following weeks, the price doubled, tripled and quadrupled. In fact, at its height the price went up to $140 a share, about seven times the original price.

We were to find out, later, that this was not because Stewart Wolff and his crack team of entrepreneurs were acute businessmen. Or even just damn lucky.

Turns out they were cooking the books.
"Homerunning", I believe is the appropriate white collar term.

Every deal, every barter, every transaction that involved homestore was recorded as revenue or income. They did this to fool the venture capital people to keep funding their house of cards. Consequently, this pumped up the stock price.

When rumors that the SEC was poking around, there was a huge company gathering at the Thousand Oaks Auditorium, where the faithful were assuaged by the WolffMan himself.

"Everything is good. We're profitable. And we're confident. Hold onto your company stock. Hell, buy more. We're going to be bigger than MicroSoft."

That's hard to do from the inside of 8 foot by 10 foot jail cell.




May 21, 1999 -- Palos Hills, IL

We arrive in Chicago about 7PM and check in to our hotel off Michigan Ave. It's my first time in the Windy City but I almost didn't see it. We were at a Westin and I had been upgraded to a junior suite on the 42nd floor.

Keep in mind this was a long time ago, when ad agencies recognized business travel for the sacrifice it was. And in return for giving up free time with friends and family, treated employees more like human beings and less like indentured servants.

It was there I encountered the Heavenly Bed™, Westin's branded bed, that quite frankly cannot be topped. I put my bags down and while admiring the floor-to-ceiling view of the lake, fell asleep and almost didn't make the trip with the production crew for a night on the town. And way too much deep dish pizza.

The following day, we load up the vans and head to Palos Hills, where we meet Ben Skora. Like Wild Bill, he marches to the beat of his own drummer. This, as Director Chris Smith often told us, is more important, much more important, than the house themselves.


Ben's house, which was all electric  and featured Star Trek like doors, robotic mannequins and a potted plant that could turn into a potty, were all run of the mill gadgetry. To be honest, the craftsmanship was on the shabby side and his taste in furniture was less 1999 and more 1979.

Ben introduced us to Arok, a hand built life size robot. And we met his "friend" Darlene, an aspiring actress who was convinced that with the right headshot and one good break she could be the next Julia Roberts.

Sadly, her appearance in Home Movie was not that epiphany.

The highlight of the day happened at lunch time. While enjoying authentic Mexican-ish style fajitas in the backyard, Ben told us of the time when he and Arok were invited to judge the Miss Nude World Contest in Las Vegas.

He was itching to show us the pictures and went inside the house and came back with no less than 8 photo albums detailing the debauchery that took place at the old Riviera Hotel on the Vegas Strip.

I spent the remainder of the day poring over those photos. Through the magic of Polaroid I saw men in bell bottoms. I saw women who had never heard of the French or Brazilian wax. And I witnessed firsthand many of the astonishing things Miss Kentucky could do with balloon animals.



Last night, we arrived in New Orleans to film the second installment of Home Movie. Today we are heading south and west to the deep Bayou to meet Wild Bill Tregle, who lives on a custom built house boat in the middle of German Lake (Lac de Allemands).

I have only known two Wild Bills in my life. And have found that if you insist people address you by the name Wild Bill you'd had better live up to the moniker.

Louisiana Wild Bill certainly did.

I should also mention that as I write this I am listening to the haunting title sequence from True Detective. I can think of no other music that better sets the stage for our adventure in this massive swamp the Mississippi built.




WB is larger than life.

Of course we knew that from the research tape we had seen months earlier. During that interview atop his ramshackle home/boat, Bill was answering questions and eating fried chicken -- he ate a lot of fried chicken. To punctuate one of his pithy, homegrown retorts he casually flung the half eaten drumstick over his shoulder and into the murky waters where it was snapped up by a waiting alligator.

That's when we knew we had to have WB for our film.

Bill doesn't live exclusively on the houseboat. He spends considerable time at his sister's house along the shore. It's here that we set up base camp for the three days of filming. And it's here Bill shows us how he earns his keep -- hunting alligators and selling the heads to alligator-head needing tourists.


In the killing shed there were thousands of these alligator melons and they gave off a miserable odor that was one part formaldehyde and one part Clorox bleach.

Bill explained how he and his buddy would get out on the lake in the early morning hours, snag an unwitting gator in a rope snare, and drag the poor bastard close to the stainless steel low-slung boat. Then Bill would take out his trusty 44 and blast a hole in the gator's skull, right between the eyes.

Later, they would patch up the hole with spackling compound and paint it dark green. And replace the eyes with black marbles.

Barry Bumpkin and Tina Tourist from Akron, Ohio would never be the wiser.



Next to the shed, was Zam's Restaurant and Curios Emporium.

I spent hours going through this fascinating collection of oddities curated from the deepest corners of Creole Country. I almost purchased some incredibly insensitive memorabilia that I found interesting simply because it was so politically incorrect.

But following a phone call with my wife, decided against it, when she rightly said, "You're not bringing n*gg*r toothpaste or any of that Southern racist shit into the house." In retrospect it's just as offensive as people who collect swastikas and various Nazi memorabilia.

When lunchtime came, we were directed towards the restaurant, where we would be eating with the snaggle-toothed locals. It's probably wrong, and maybe lazy, of me to use a cliche like snaggle-toothed, but no other words seem to pack as much pungent truth.

We entered through the rear of the restaurant and mistakenly got a first hand look at the kitchen where our food was being prepared. There wasn't a hair net in sight. And the chefs, er…cooks, were all smoking cigarettes and drinking beer.

I happened to glance at the fryer and the hot black oil looked as if it had been drained directly from the underbelly of a 67 Chevy Impala -- the one on cinder blocks covered in Spanish moss under the cypress tree.

But damn, if that wasn't the best tasting fried chicken I ever had in my life. I was so pleasantly surprised, I ventured beyond my comfort zone and sampled the alligator. Which, not surprisingly, tasted like chicken. Really good Louisiana fried chicken.

Sadly, Bill passed away last year. I wish I had the chance to meet him again. He was a one-in-a-million character.

While digging around the internet, I found Wild Bill appeared in some print advertising for Southern Comfort. It was classic gallows humor with the kind of acerbic headline I wish I had written.




Coming up tomorrow, a trip to Chicago and an interview with one of the judges from the Miss World Nude Contest.


In 1998, Chiat/Day was running on all cylinders.

The prior year, we were named Agency of the Year. We were winning awards on all our accounts: Taco Bell, Apple, Playstation, Levis and ABC. The economy was booming and dotcoms were handing us their business without reviews.

Including homestore.com -- a real estate listing website.

Rumor had it they had a $100 million budget. And we were told the CEO, a karate-chopping engineer-turned-entrepreneur, was going to be the next Bill Gates.

Who told us? He did.

To say CEO Stuart Wolff (Federal Penitentiary Prisoner #41978, more on that later) was full of himself would be an understatement akin to calling the Titanic a boat, or the Hindenburg a big balloon.

Of course when somebody holds out a carrot as big as Stuart's you learn to shut up, grin and start planning the boondoggles.

After a few rounds of strategically-correct, but uninspired work, we presented a campaign that appealed to Stuart's oversized ego. The idea was to film unique people living in unique houses. The commercials would all be shot documentary style and were tied to the line:

There's a dream home for everyone. What's yours?

To his credit, Stuart saw the effort as having great potential. So much so that he reasoned, "before we shoot the spots, let's figure out how to make commercials people will pay to see."

Great, I thought, I have two toddlers at home trying to figure out how to use a toilet and this bozo wants us to figure out how to change the entire interruptive advertising paradigm.

And so the storyboards sat on the shelf.

Unproduced for many, many months.

And in those many, many months, we (John Shirley and I) came to blows with the new upper management at Chiat who had abandoned the old credo of fighting for good work and were more interested in fighting for good revenue.

The acrimony was palpable.
And it became our undoing.
But through sheer determination and a pit bull unwillingness to give in to those without a creative bone in their body, we prevailed.

In a bit of creative ju-jitsu, we wouldn't shoot 6 TV commercials. We would shoot a feature film, a documentary from which 6 commercials would be extracted. Stuart loved the plan. No one had ever done something like that before and more importantly, he saw the venture as a way to get his picture on the cover of Forbes Magazine.

Let's go shoot a movie.

February 28, 1999 -- San Diego, CA



We arrive at the home of Bob Walker and Frances Mooney.

The couple have no children, but are precociously proud "parents" of 41 cats. Although it felt like there were 141.

The house has been built and customized for the cats. Everywhere you looked there were scratching posts, catwalks and litter boxes. There also these red balls filled with catnip strewn about the home which was less of a home and more of a pastel-painted funhouse.



I don't know what catnip is or does -- and frankly I don't want to -- I only know that the air inside the house is so thick with dander, cat hair and tchotschkes that I can't breath and must retire to the driveway for oxygen.

An infelicitous start to our film.

Frances shows us how she "talks" to the cats. And Bob shows us some of the new cat furniture he is building in the garage. His enthusiasm is both fascinating and unnatural. It is at this point, that I decide there's only one thing I like less than cats, Cat People.


Coming up: our inauspicious shoot in San Diego is followed by a raucous trip to New Orleans.


I've been thinking about obituaries lately.

Perhaps because we just said our goodbyes to my mother-in-law. And perhaps because I'm scheduled to go to a memorial for a colleague who tragically passed in a car accident a few months ago.

I knew her casually and had the pleasure of working with her on the ABC campaign, years ago. She worked on the voluminous ads done to promote individual shows and evenings. I'm hoping the one I've yanked from the files was hers.

And if it wasn't, it is now.

What I will say about Sheri, and I'm sure this will be mentioned at the service, is she had a great laugh. An infectious laugh. A glowing infectious laugh that continues to echo. If she was in the room or anywhere in the vicinity, you can be sure someone was going to try and say something that would make her laugh. It was that sweet.

Not a bad memory to leave behind.

And so, as any self-respecting narcissist would, I started thinking about my obituary. Even though I'm only 44 and not planning to go anywhere soon.

A few weeks ago, a young copywriter, who is quiet by nature, came up to me at the coffee machine.

"Hey, you're the guy that did that ABC campaign, right? We loved that stuff. Our professors at ad school used to bring that up all the time."

Which roughly translates to:

"…And now you're here writing crappy dealer retail ads, man what happened to you? You big fucking loser!"

Well, I don't want my professional legacy to be a campaign that was, on one hand incredibly good to me, but on the other was too simple, too easy, and frankly, too one dimensional.

As my friend George often points out, for work to have worth it must have a degree of difficulty. It requires sweat, persistence and a vision that remains untainted by the inhabitants of the Nincompoop Forest .

For me, and my partner John Shirley, that was our work for Homestore.com and the production of the documentary, Home Movie .


A Sisyphean effort if there ever was one.

For years the Director of the film, Chris Smith, would tell me that I needed to write a book about the Homestore story. It was so indicative of the dotcom bust and had all the elements of a great novel, including the tale of the CEO who is now serving time in a Federal Penitentiary for embezzling millions of dollars.

I'm not sure how many of you know the sweet pleasure of seeing a former douchebag client wearing an orange jumpsuit and doing the perp walk, but I do.

The truth is, I would love to write that book. The other truth is I don't have the notes, the facts or the memories of everything that transpired to do it any justice.

But I do have enough for a 5-Day Series, a travelogue if you will, of the journey that took us from the crooked corporate headquarters in Thousand Oaks to a rustic treehouse nestled in the rainforest of the Waipeo Valley to the tony town of Park City, Utah where we celebrated the wrap of the film as only abused ad agency people with an unlimited budget could…

"Waiter, can you please bring us a ninth bottle of that $200 Opus One. Oh hell, make it an even 10."

Coming up tomorrow, our first stop on a cross country tour -- a cathouse in San Diego.


I hadn't planned on writing a post today; normally I take Fridays off.

However, I received a special request from my friend Mike Folino, who for some unknown reason believed some R17 digital ink written for my loyal 8 readers would garner attention for a project he just finished.

I'm always happy to help a friend, despite my well-honed online persona as a grumpy miscreant. And so I encourage you to visit this website and help spread the word  about these touching films. They're about 15 minutes each and they might change the way you look at the world.

Now before you start dashing off an email asking me to promote your sister-in-law's Pickles and Blintzes Deli or your new mobile app that reloads parking meters via your smartphone, you should know this about Mike Folino.

He is a former colleague of mine from Team One Advertising.

Like almost every other writer or art director that worked there, he has gone on to great success as a Chief Creative Officer or Executive Creative Director.

That distinguished list includes: Angelo, Schwartz, Levit, Monteiro, Crandall, Silver, Mazza, Hage, Kadin, Spiegel, Toyama, hell, even the guy who used to push the damn mail cart around became a CCO.

I am such a fucking loser.

The point is, Mike can do something for me.

He is extremely well connected. He produces great work, at a high level (these films and his spots for Visa come to mind) and there is the remote possibility he could throw me a bone in the future, you know should my stellar career writing banner ads for local mattress stores come to a grinding halt.

So please don't bombard me with requests.

I'm looking at you, ColonelLingus2013@hotmail.com.

I spent the majority of my career in advertising as a staff guy. Or as I often say, a chump.

When I was on the company payroll, I never cared for those carefree freelancers who would arrive at the last minute after all the legwork had been done and 16 rounds of work had been killed.

And it didn't help that they'd stroll into the office with their come-in-at-11 attitude. Or their I'm-shoving-out-at-4-and-there's-nothing-you-can-do-about-it end of day demeanor.

Who were these "happy" creatives and what business did they have with our business? I often thought.

You can chalk it up to being young, insecure and overly ambitious, but we staffers also regarded the hiring of freelancers as a not-so-subtle signal from upper management. They had lost confidence in our ability to come up with a creative solve and needed the high-priced professional gunslingers to come in and clean up our mess.

Or so, we thought.

But now I'm 44 and have been playing for the other team for more than 10 years. I have a whole other perspective on the matter. In fact, and I say this with no self-serving agenda whatsoever, I believe freelancers will be the ones who save our industry.

Here's why.

Freelancers are cheaper than staffers. They can telecommute. They require no real estate footprint. They demand no benefits. Think how much money is wasted on the false camaraderie of employee picnics, birthday cakes, and Secret Santas. This country would be back in the black if businesses, large and small, didn't have to reach into their pocket and shell out billions of dollars for supermarket cupcakes and bi-annual employee dental cleanings.

They're also cheaper because you only pay them when there is work to be done. These days that work can be sporadic. Clients are moving away from the AOR model and doing more project work. And that project work is often doled out as a "jump ball." Pitting one holding company agency against a sister agency.

It goes without saying if you find yourself in a jump ball situation, you want to deploy the "tallest, most athletic" creative team money can buy. Tall and athletic being a metaphor for bald and stocky, of course.

Also, freelancers are easier. There's no drama. No trauma. And no "Why do I always get the shitty assignments? Why don't you give this pharma project to Bill and Kathy, they're the ones that dropped the meat in the dirt on that new business pitch?"

Freelancers are happy to work on any project. From a mammoth Super Bowl spot to the continued evolution of the Crestor guy .

"The client wants Crestor Guy to be more three dimensional. With a more urgent call to action. Maybe even have him do some live tweeting."

"Pffft, no problem," said the eager freelancer.

And finally there's this. Freelancers are more efficient.

You hand the brief to a freelance team, hold a gun up to their head and say you need to see something in a day and 24 hours later that freelance team will have a packet or a pdf of fresh new ideas. That's just the way it works.

Wham, bam, thank you Omnicom.

Then, on Friday afternoon, when the account team comes back from the presentation and announces all the work has died, the freelancers will be right there to pick up the slack. Ready to fire up the meter, work the weekend and charge double overtime. There's no pouting. Or grousing. Or venting via the comment section on AgencySpy.

Because to a freelancer there's only one phrase sweeter than "the strategy has changed."

"The check has cleared."


This is the living room of my house.

Some of you have been here, most of you have not.

The couch needs replacing, thanks to the abundant sunlight and the new sleeping habits of my dog. In the past we never let Nellie up on the furniture, but she's old now and probably on her last days, so we bit the bullet and acceded to her comfort.

We could probably use some new chairs and the hardwood floors need to be resurfaced. Those things can wait.

What couldn't wait was my new Dropcam.

As you can see from the watermark in the lower right hand corner, I now have 24/7/365 video surveillance of the inside of my house. To a control freak, like myself, this is Nirvana. You know, as much as nirvana can coincide with being in Culver City.

I'm sure you've heard of Dropcam, they are kind of relentless with the banner ads. They're made by the same company that revolutionized thermostats, Nest, which you can spot on the wall by the staircase.

The camera itself is tiny and unobtrusive. It has a very Apple-like aesthetic to it. It delivers an incredible 110 degree wide HD image. With astonishing digital zooming.

But unlike the video cameras I have mounted on the outside of my house which feed into a DVR hidden in the closet, the Dropcam sends all its data to the cloud.

In the event a burglar broke in and spotted the camera there is no way he could do anything about being caught on film. It's so delicious in its design I'm almost hoping someone tries to break in my house.

In fact, I've started to leave the windows open and all the doors unlocked. And I've left some shopping bags from Tiffany and Cartier out by the garbage cans.

Is the Dropcam without its faults?

Not exactly. You see my wife is not thrilled that I've turned our home into a Gestapo-style "police state." And questions my sanity with regards to security, among other things.

Which means a conciliatory move is in order. Which means a trip to the furniture store for a new couch will probably be sooner than later.


I'm driving a loaner car these days.

My 2007 Lexus had to go in for a lengthy service.

"The manifold gaskets' shot and we have to replace the upper knuckle joints and recalibrate the flick-flacks. The estimate says $600, but you and I both know it's more likely to be $1600."

At that point I was whisked off to the luxurious comfort of the customer lounge. A misnomer if there ever one. Car dealerships, even those in Beverly Hills, are my least favorite place to be.

I had been given loaner cars before. This time I was careful not to get stuck in an RX 350, the official Mom Mobile of West Los Angeles. Nor did I want the clunky CT 200. Last time I got one it had been driven by a hipster fond of smoking clove cigarettes in the car.

Moreover, I'm not a fan of hybrids.

For a week I found myself asking my wife, "is the car on or off?"

Maybe I should have spent more time listening in science class, but I still don't understand how electric cars are better for the planet than those that run on fossil fuels.

Charging a hybrid requires electricity and most of our electricity comes from burning coal. By the transitive law of conspicuous consumption haven't we just swapped one poison for another?

So before they stuck me in a car I didn't want to be stuck in, I specifically requested an IS 250. I like the look and feel of the IS. Plus it has shifting paddles on the steering wheel. I haven't mastered the paddles by any means, but it's all about the illusion of driving a sports car and not letting on about my advanced age of 44.

Fortunately, they had one available. A good one. With low miles and no hint of second hand clove. Of course, as I have often documented on this blog, not all goes as planned. This is another one for the Shit-That-Only-Happens-To-Me File.

If you look at the above picture, you'll see the car has a vanity license plate. I'm not a vanity license plate guy.

And certainly not a fan of this one.



I've been driving this for three days now, blissfully unaware that while I've been smiling at pretty women stopped at red lights, I've been piloting the automotive equivalent of the world's most embarrassing T-shirt…


I probably don't do enough of this here at RoundSeventeen, after all I am a hired gun and should grease the skids and kiss a little ass more often, but today I am going to sing the praises of a new TV campaign.

Namely, three commercials for Tomcat Mouse Repellant.

Generally speaking, the bar for creativity for products designed to kill pests and vermin is admittedly low. Years ago, we pitched and won the Ortho Bug B Gon account for BBDO. The roach and flea and ant jokes just wrote themselves.

Nevertheless, this effort from Barton Graf 9000, the most oddly named ad agency in America, is worthy of our attention.

In very meta terms, it is absurdist theater turned into absurdist theater.

The production value is purposefully low. The USP (unique selling propositions, for you laymen) are forcefully delivered upfront. And the writing is simply inspired.

In other words, it goes about its business the way 99% of ad agencies don't go about theirs.

I can count on one hand the number of bosses that would have let this kind of work out the door. And frankly can't think of a single CEO who would've given it the green light.

"It's cheesy"

"It's silly."

"All the characters are dead."

Yes. Yes. And yes.

You can find these little gems on YouTube. For your convenience, I've embedded my favorite.





Why, you may ask, is this my favorite?

It's simple really. In this weird scenario, you have one dead mouse swinging a pointy mace and killing another mouse, who it should be noted, is already dead.

If that's not Cannes Gold, I don't know what is.


I was in a meeting about a month ago. Actually, it does me no good to pinpoint the date of this meeting because I was in the same meeting 2 months ago. Two years ago. 5 years ago. And 10 years ago.

You know the kind of meeting.

A dozen of the agency's top minds gathered to share their opinions, ply their office politics and grandstand on a do-little, utterly-disposable, completely-mindless piece of crap communication that will cost $581,327 in research, labor and man hours to produce. And return $27 in actual revenue.

I'm no Nobel-Prize winning economist Milton Friedman -- we had the Friedmans over for Pesach once and Roy Friedman drank all the Slivovitz and started dancing with the drapes -- but the numbers simply don't jive.

Is it any wonder why ad agencies can't make any money these days and demand employees put in 80 hour weeks while chained to the SuperDesk™.

The simplest down-and-dirty, get-it-out-the-door project has become a mental clusterfuck that makes the current Sunni/Shia/ISIS/Yazedi crises look like child's play.

And media fragmentation has only exacerbated the situation.

It may take a village to raise a child but it takes a battalion to put together a banner ad. A small army to  spit out an FSI. And a full-blown coalition to concept a simple TV spot.

Not since the last congressional caucus have I seen so many people accomplishing so little.

And yet the good folks in HR are still hiring more.

We don't need more.
We need less.

In fact we need less of everything.
Less people in the room.
Less input.
Less data.
Less client feedback.
Less testing.
Less tweaking.
Less pages in the deck.
Less Powerpoints.
Less layers.
Less top management.
Less circle backs, deep dives and base touching.
Less Devil advocates.

We need to do more with our gut.
Less with our brain.

And on that note.

Unless you've been hiding in a cave in Tora Bora, Afghanistan, you must have heard or seen the recent kerfuffle between Ben Affleck and Bill Maher/Sam Harris  regarding Islam.

Many articles and opinions have been floating around since then and I have resisted the urge to weigh in on the matter, preferring instead to soak in as much as I can. However, like a hot Muhammara, the issue has been burning a hole in my stomach and I can resist no more.

If you've been following RoundSeventeen at all you know I'm not a big fan of organized religion. I have disdain for them all.

Last week I ripped the Hasidem, whose Jewish idiocy with regards to women, the refusal to turn a light switch on a Saturday, and ungodly attitude towards menstrual juices is surpassed by none.

No less stupid are the fundamental Christians who insist on handling deadly copperheads and rattlesnakes as a testament of their faith.

And don't even get me started on the Trinity, Immaculate Conception, virgin birth, and creationism. All moronic, all worthless and all taken on face value without a shred of evidence.



I have a disdain for religion, but that disdain is not equal. Because as Sam Harris so eloquently stated, when Ben Affleck wasn't grandstanding and shouting over him, "Islam is the mother lode of bad ideas."

The Five Pillars, Shahadah, Salat, Zakat, Sawm, and Hajj, I have no problems with. These are largely spiritual practices that do not infringe or affect others. If it were to stop there, fine.

But it doesn't stop there, because Islam is more than a religion it is a political and cultural phenomena that includes human being's worst practices:

* death for apostasy
* jihad
* kuffar
* martyrdom
* repression of women's rights
* death for homosexuality
* dhimmitude
* FGM
* The Caliphate
* violent anti-semitism

These are tenets of Islam that are supported by the Quran and the Hadith. Before you reach for your Bible or Old Testament, know that I am very aware of the passages that are just as disturbing and just as violent.

Here's the difference, and it's a big one.

In the year 2014 AD, you don't find Christians, Jews, Hindus, Buddhists, or followers of the Flying Spaghetti Monster, piloting planes into buildings, strapping on suicide vests, or separating people's heads from their torsos in the hope of receiving 72 virgins in paradise.

More importantly, and this is the point Sam Harris was trying to make before Ben Affleck hijacked the stage, it is the ideas of Islam that merit our criticism, not the followers of Islam. Only by challenging these barbaric precepts do we stand any chance of moving past them.

Much like the imbecilic belief that we are center of the universe. Or dinosaurs roamed the land 6,000 years ago. Or that the sun revolves around the Earth.

Similarly, by failing to contest Islam, out of some misguided respect or political correctness, western liberals and progressives have conceded and in effect enabled the first steps in the long, slow march back to the Dark Ages.

It's not the direction I'd like to see us moving towards. Particularly since I am the father of two daughters.

Which brings me to one final point about the 1.6 billion peaceful, hardworking Muslims, who, according to Affleck just want to live their lives and go to the store and get a sandwich.

Great, get your sandwich, go home, be with your families and live your lives. However, I'm having a sandwich too. It might be pulled pork. It might even be topped with bacon. But what I eat, what I believe, what I choose to do with my life is none of your concern.

So if you subscribe to the abhorrent notion that Jews, infidels and homosexuals should be shot, or that it's acceptable to hit, rape or stone your wife, or that the laws of this land are meaningless when compared to the all-knowing, all-merciful laws of some imaginary Sky Daddy, I don't care what religious stripe you wear, there's a mighty good chance I'm not going to like you.

Sorry Ben, that's not gross.
That's not racist.
That's not me being prejudiced. Or pre-judging.

That's me judging.


Came across this  recently on social media.

It's a list of the Top Ten advertising blogs that every student of advertising should be reading.

Naturally, RoundSeventeen failed to make the list.

I suspect they could have expanded the list to 100 and my blog would have come in at 101. I remember when I was made a Vice President and looked forward to flying Business Class. The day after my promotion, HR put out a memo that Business Class was now only for Senior Vice Presidents.

Doh!

With regard to this magical list, that's OK. Because I never viewed R17 as an exclusive blog about advertising. As my 8 loyal readers know I often delve into other matters of far less importance: Politics, religion, the meaning of life, well, the meaning of my life.

What I don't understand is the glaring omission of other true advertising blogs that merit much more attention than the 10 given ink.

Luke Sullivan has an ad blog.

Dave Trott has a great ad blog.

So does the lumbering Mark Fenske, who should write more, including a post to yours truly, which he promised me three months ago.

And then there are the ad blogs I find myself reading every day.

For my daily fill of British grumpiness, there's George Parker.

There's my pal George Tannenbaun, who often bills himself as the 10th oldest copywriter still in the business. I guess that makes me, at the tender age of 44, the 11th oldest active copywriter.

And finally there is Bob Hoffman who pens the Ad Contrarian.

I thoroughly enjoy Bob's blog because he often says what the rest of us are thinking. I try to do the same but the truth is I'm still peddling my goods on the freelance circuit and in the interest of continued employment have to keep my guns somewhat holstered.

I'm sure there are others out there that I am forgetting and I apologize in advance. And because writers are good at holding grudges, I'm also sure those writers, when pressed to rattle off their favorite blogs, will gleefully omit RoundSeventeen.

That's OK, I'm getting used to it.


There's a guy in nearby Calabasas selling a 1976 Corvette Stingray.

It has a 350 cubic inch, 8 cylinder engine and apart from a U-joint replacement is in perfect running condition. I'm willing to bet the glove compartment is chock full of cassettes: Foghat, Robin Trower, Little Feat, and Led Zepellin.

For another two hundred dollars I'm sure he'd throw in the classic music collection.

Guess what? I just dropped $7000 in one fell swoop.

But before you jump to conclusions, you should know that on my driveway you will NOT find a pitiful attempt to grab a second bite at the apple, some neon orange pronouncement to the world that I should be out there, in the words of Randle McMurphy, "bird-dogging chicks and banging beaver."

No, the 7K I shelled out went for something far more pragmatic, far more urgent.

Last week, after years of delay, we did a full main line sewer replacement. A PVC overhaul, from the crawl space below the house all the way to main line buried on Le Bourget Ave.

Le Bourget is French for bottomless pit of home repairs.

Like most homeowners, my wife and I had been putting off the replacement for far too long. We knew we had to do it. We just needed to wait for the perfect time. And it seemed the day before my mother-in-laws' funeral was that perfect time.

Years ago, when my daughters were in their early teens and itching for us to leave the house without them, my wife and I went out to Ugo for some passable Italian food. No sooner had we asked the waiter for desert did we receive a frantic call from my youngest. She's the reigning Culver City Queen of Drama, so we've learned to dismiss her tzimis.

"The toilet won't flush and the house smells funny."

OK Abby, we thought, we'll be home soon, not willing to abandon the chocolate mud cake we had just ordered.

When we got home we realized that the girl who cried wolf should have mentioned that the wolf, and the entire pack of wolves, had evacuated themselves in the guest bathroom and the guest shower.

I was looking at three inches of unfiltered, untreated raw sewage. If the sub-flooring in the bathroom wasn't slightly canted -- luckily -- it would have spread out into the living room.

The clean-up took three days and two 5 gallon jugs of bleach and ammonia.

We snaked the main line.
A year later we snaked it again.
6 months after that, and in decreasing intervals, we kept snaking it until last week, when we could snake it no more.

The full line trenchless replacement was a marvel to watch. Had I been thinking I would have filmed the hardworking crew of 10 Armenian plumbers as they destroyed my yard. For the record I did Google Armenia to determine their general outlook vis-a-vis, Jews.

They attached a heavy metal wedge type device to a 25 foot long PVC pipe. Then, with the aid of a hydraulic machine and thick metal cable, literally dragged the new pipe inside the old clay pipe. The metal wedge acted like a splitter and exploded the former clay pipe 4 feet below the surface of the earth.

It rumbled under the ground like a series of 3.2 mini earthquakes.

Like I said, it was fascinating. Not $7000 worth of fascinating, but that's my life.

I don't have a bright orange, 350 horsepower mid-life crises sitting on my driveway. But I do have the iron-clad guarantee that the remains of last night's roast chicken dinner have been safely whooshed away to 5 miles off the coast of El Segundo.

I hope the whales will enjoy it.


The Siegel household is overflowing with food.

As I mentioned last week, following the funeral of my Mother In Law, we had a shiva call at the house.  Not one of those deeply religious shivas with covered mirrors, milk crates and 10 strange Jewish men reciting arcane Hebrew prayers.

This was more the West Los Angeles, Jewish Lite version with lots of blond shiksas and outrageously expensive catered deli foods. So much food in fact, that even the second fridge in the garage was overflowing.

In order to make room for all the corned beef and soggy cole claw, I decided to clear out and consolidate the main fridge. What I found were no less than 10 bottles of Hot Sauce. This is in addition to the always fruitful pepper plants in the garden, including Serrano, Habanero and Ghost.

All of which suggest I have an iron stomach. A little softer and pudgier on the outside than I'd like, but impenetrable like an old bank vault on the inside.

I developed this particular culinary affinity when I first moved to California. My roommate and I would chug beer, chase it with a shot of cheap Jim Beam and then challenge each other to chew on these tiny unspecified peppers that we bought from a little Mexican bodega on Sawtelle Blvd.

The peppers were brined and had a distinctive vinegary smell. That is until you bit into one and it unleashed its fury on lips, tongues and any nerve endings in sight. It was like willfully putting a live Wasp in your mouth.

Apart from the immediate dopamine rush, you might be wondering why we would subject ourselves to such pain?

The answer is simple and it is known to all who have a penchant for alcohol. It's the preventative cure for a hangover.

You can't wake up the next day overly concerned about the pounding in your head. Not when there's the more immediate and pressing agony in the 'southern hemisphere.'

Thank heaven for little girls

I read this article  the other day or somebody sent it to me. To be frank, my memory as well as my resistance to a second beer with dinner, is long gone.

The article, in case you didn't bother to read it, claims that families with two daughters are the ideal family. Ideal, mind you, meaning better than any and all other possible combinations.

I must have hit the Fatherhood Jackpot because I have two daughters. Irish twins, actually born a mere 17 months apart.

The girls in the picture above are not mine (freestockphoto.com) and I've been warned by my wife not to post photos of my girls, particularly in light of my incendiary remarks regarding: religious people, advertising, politics, Taco Bell, douchebags, social media, CEO's, people with tattoos, or anyone who drives a car in a manner that would piss me off.

In other words, everybody on the planet.

According to the research, two daughters make for the most harmonious family. If only the author or the researchers had spent some time in my house. And watched the cat fights that erupted over time spent in the bathroom.

Or the heated discussions that have arisen about dirty dishes.

"I did the dishes."

"When?"

"Last week."

Or the arguments that ensued over who cleaned up after the dog in the backyard.

"I already picked up the poop."

"You picked up all the small poops and left the big ones for me."

Hard to believe that one time I almost threw away all this harmony. You see, a few years after the girls were born, I felt myself yearning for a son. What father doesn't? And so with some disposable income in hand, my wife and I enlisted the aid of a fertility specialist who held out the promise of an XY embryo.

This was not at all unusual as we had to employ fertility methods for our first child. The second came naturally, because as one doctor noted, "the best cure for infertility is a pregnancy."

Using a specially-designed centrifuge, sperm containing the right genetic material for a male would be separated out and injected into fertile eggs. In this manner there were no discarded embryos or anything remotely unethical. We made several exorbitantly expensive attempts. And sadly, all were unsuccessful.

Which I suppose is a blessing. Otherwise our family would have consisted of two girls and one boy. And would have dropped us all the way down to #7 on the list.

Of course, it wasn't a total loss.
At the sperm collection center, I got to experience many of the excellent movies produced in nearby Chatsworth, including:

Balling for Dollars
In and Out of Africa
Cram Session 8
Pulp Friction
When Harry Ate Sally

and

In Diana Jones and the Temple of Poon

I'm hungry.

You're reading this on Wednesday morning, but as I write this, it is Saturday morning, Yom Kippur, and I'm looking at a long, hot day of depriving myself of any food.

I don't know why I observe the traditions, well, some of the traditions, of my people.

As I've noted before I'm a militant atheist. There can be no God when the Syracuse Orangemen intercept a pass on the 32 yard line, march the ball down into the Red Zone and then fail to come away with a score.

And I'm not a big fan of Scripture. I don't need to get my morals and ethical guidance from an ancient goat herder who was willing to slay his son because he heard voices in his head. Or that an explosive locust infestation in Egypt was the work of the Almighty, King of King, Host of Hosts.

Particularly when the world view of that goat herder, and indeed most prophets of the time, was largely dependent on the drinking capacity and stamina of a smelly camel.

But, I abstain from food nonetheless.

More to honor my father, my father's father, and all those further down the family tree who took a beating from Cossacks, Prussians, Huns, Babylonians, et. al., just because of who they were.

Of course, that doesn't mean I give a pass to all the nonsense practiced by the more ardent members of my Tribe.

Take for instance the half-wit Hasid pictured above. In order to abide by commandment #591 set forth in the book of Ezekiel…

"Thou shalt not sit next to a woman on a Boeing 737-200, lest any of her menstrual juices contaminate thee"

So before boarding his non-stop flight to Cincinnati, this fast-thinking zealot stopped by the airport kiosk selling large industrial-sized plastic bags, right next to the guy who sells Cinnabons, and found a unique way to do comply with the all-knowing wishes of Ezekiel.

Am I mocking? You're damned right I am mocking.

You see I have been given grief, on several occasions, about my relentless biting commentary towards Islam, the comedic gift that keeps giving. But for the record I've also had a few choice words about Christianity, the Trinity and the ubiquitous Nativity Scenes (for laughs you should go to the RoundSeventeen search box and look up Caganer.)

One anonymous reader has repeatedly taken me to task and requested that I lay some hurt on my own co-religionists.

Done.
And done.

The fact is there's nothing I enjoy more than taking potshots at Jews. It's like that old Seinfeld episode .
It's executive privilege. Plus it puts me on much safer ground. God knows I've already offended way too many people.

And now minutes before the kickoff of the Stanford game, I feel obliged to engage in some meaningful introspection. Which is difficult consider we won't be breaking out the bagels and the tuna fish salad for another 7.5 hours.

Today I had planned to write about the recent flare up between Ben Affleck and Bill Maher/Sam Harris  discussing the topic of "Islamophobia."

But I'm postponing that.

For one thing I've covered the the topic before. Moreover, the issue of culture clash and extreme Islamic atrocities isn't going away anytime soon.

Instead I've made room for a more agreeable issue: the stewardship of the planet.

Agreeable in that no matter where you stand on climate change, and I know some very knowledgeable folks (including engineers and scienticians) who contest that notion,  no one disagrees with the idea of reducing pollutants, conserving our natural resources and taking better care of the planet.

Which is why I was so thrilled to receive a call from the Media Arts Lab and my old boss, Lee Clow.

They have been working tirelessly with Conservation International. And prepared a star-studded series of films, voiced by Harrison Ford, Kevin Spacey and Julia Roberts, that began running yesterday.

In addition to the films, Lee wanted to extend the campaign into social media. That's when my phone rang. Because when people think of social media, digital ninja-tude and being on the leading edge of culture, my name is usually the first in the Rolodex. (You kids can use The Google and to look up Rolodex.)

Actually I think my name came up because Lee enjoys my almost daily tweets about the adventures of gout-ridden North Korean Leader Kim Jung Un . And wanted to see if we could spark some similar magic in the Twittersphere.

Yesterday the campaign launched.

And I'm already seeing great press about it. I wish I was more involved with the making of the films, I wasn't, but I tip my hat to the creatives, the producers and all the agency people who put it together.

The social media aspect of the campaign has also started. If you click on over to Twitter, you should start following The Ocean, Mother Nature, Soil, Redwood and the others.

There you will find many tweets on behalf of Conservation International. And some of them are my handiwork.







Make a donation to CI.

Then follow, retweet, and start conversations.

Do it because it's the right thing to do for our planet. And, perhaps more importantly, an excellent and indirect way to defray the cost of my daughter's exorbitant out-of-state college tuition.


Oh Advertising, you amuse me

Last week was Advertising Week in New York City. And for the 29th year in a row, I was not in attendance.

As you might expect as a bona fide Kool-Aid hater, I'm not a big fan of conferences, confabs, symposiums, or any type of large gathering that might require me to pee in a stainless steel trough.

I have no interest in any activity that necessitates a printed schedule and wall-to-wall panels and forums.


6:45 --- 10 Reasons Why You're Not Flying Business Class

7:50 --- Sweat Shop Architecture, How to Maximize Profits by Minimizing Employee Footprint

8:35 --- Pizza, The Best and Least Expensive Way To Feed Overtime Workers


Now, I've got to tread lightly here.

Jerry Seinfeld recently gave a scathing speech at an advertising award show and was roundly criticized for his demeaning and snarky tone. He and I share many of the same views on the industry, though his perspective is quite different than mine.

He's a gazillionaire comedian who can afford to bite the hand that feeds him. Hell, if he wanted he could buy Omnicom and Publicis and stage Celebrity CEO Death Matches.

I also like to nibble on the hand that feeds me, but I'm a considerably less-wealthy freelance copywriter and can't afford to exacerbate the situation -- as Jerry did -- by also shitting on the victim's bloodied handless stump.

Truth is, advertising has been, and continues to be, very, very good to me. I've been able to make a decent living simply by being a wise ass. It's like I never left high school.

My problem with Advertising Week and all these expensive extravaganza's, and that includes SXSW, Cannes, etc., is the artifice of it all. It's the willful pretending that what we do, is not what we do.

We're not starting conversations.
No one in their right mind wants to have a conversation with Febreeze.

We're not giving brands a distinctive voice.
The voice of Burger King sounds remarkably like the voice of McDonalds. "Please come in and eat our processed meat-thingies."

And we're not making the world a better place.
15 minutes could save you 15% or more on car insurance.

For every ground shaking noteworthy campaign, like the rebirth of Apple or the meteoric rise of Old Spice, there are 10, 000 efforts, maybe 100,000, that made no one smile, cry, laugh, or think. They had zero powers of persuasion. In fact, because they were an insult on intelligence and so poorly crafted, it is more likely these campaigns dissuaded consumers.

You'll never see a panel on that.

The reality is, and 99% of my colleagues who work in the trenches and also never go to these "festivals" will agree, our business is about moving the merchandise.

So when the client says we need to find a better way to say, "There's never been a better time to visit your ________ dealer."

We schedule meetings, do focus groups, write briefs, explore creative alternatives, and then we find a better way to say, "There's never been a better time to visit your ________ dealer."

Or, we just go with what the client wanted.
That's the business we're in.

Today marks the conclusion of Think Positive week.

I actually thought about not posting today which would have made this a short week. And would have been  a sly commentary on how little there is to be positive about. But as my pal and advertising doppelgänger George Tannenbaum  says, sometimes we must just soldier on.

To make matters even more challenging, today I've decided to return to everyone's favorite RoundSeventeen topic, advertising.

But before I do, it should be noted that last month, for only the third time ever, web traffic topped
10,000 hits. Moreover, this was without the benefit of any material being reposted on agencyspy, who have chosen to no longer put up links to my blog.

I would have some choice words words for them, but this is Think Positive week and I want to remain on this uncharted High Road.

So what, you may be wondering, could I possibly have to say about advertising that might be even remotely considered positive?

Well, consider this, earlier this week I was asked to work on a project aimed at stopping the spread of the Ebola virus. That's right, somebody paid me good money to put on my thinking cap and, instead of shilling brown fizzy water or overpriced auto insurance, fire up ideas in service of something that could actually make a difference in this world.

That doesn't happen too often.
In fact, it happened twice.

Last week my old boss, and yes I am going to drop his name, Lee Clow, specifically sought me out to work on a pet project. I hadn't seen Lee in years and it was just like old times.

"Brian," he said to me, "I think you'll be perfect for this."

Lee's project, which I will detail at a later date when it is officially launched, has to do with climate change and pro-active environmentalism.

A day rate.
Two pro-bono assignments.
And the opportunity to atone for two decades worth of snarky shameless huckstering and the promotion of conspicuous consumption. I can't think of a better way to end Think Positive Week.

By the way, all you heartless cynics will be happy to know that next we will be returning to our unique brand of Jaded Bitterness and Negativity™.

This is the chair my mother-in-law, Marilyn Weinblatt would sit in when she came to visit.

She won't be sitting in that seat any longer, as she passed away and as our new favorite rabbi put it, was "returned to the bosom of the earth." That phrasing will stick with me the rest of my days.

You might think that a deep, personal loss like this would put a crimp in this week's Think Positive theme.

But you'd be wrong.

The knowledgeable rent-a-rabbi, who, prior to the service was a complete stranger to all of us and came to us only at the behest of the quick-thinking funeral home, was a great source of wisdom and comfort. He quickly pointed out the passing of one's life is an opportunity for friends and family to be grateful.

No one could be more grateful than me.

I met Marilyn and Bob Weinblatt many years ago. In fact, it seems like it was in another lifetime despite my 44 years of age.

They were what I like to call "Nice Jews." They were from Minneapolis, and were unlike any of my shrill NY relatives who were fond of yelling, screaming, fighting and more yelling.

They had a strange, easy-to-be-around midwestern demeanor. And reminded me of the characters in the Coen Brothers, A Serious Man, which I will now have to watch again.

In essence, this denied me a great fount of humor. Because I never had the stereotypical overbearing mother-in-law.

Marilyn was never one to interfere. Or raise her voice. Or bust my balls in any way, shape or manner. Many a Borscht Belt comedian would have a field day with those kind of mother-in-laws. Thankfully, I did not.

Apart from the small profit she made on her apartment at Seizure World, or unless we find a secret stash of thousand dollar bills stuffed in a secret compartment of the case that contains her Mah Jong tiles, Marilyn was never wealthy. At least not in the conventional sense.

You see while she never had a stock portfolio or a held titles to various real estate properties, she had something more valuable. She had the pride of raising 4 incredible daughters, the sweetest, most kind-hearted women I've ever had the pleasure to meet. And I had the good fortune and foresight to marry one of them.

From that branch of the family tree, which is now thankfully part of my family tree, sprung 8 equally caring grandchildren and one recently born great grandchild. To spend any time with them is to know laughter, joy and love.

In short, Marilyn left this world a little nicer, a little sweeter, and a little better than the world she was born into.

In my book, that's about the noblest any of us could hope for.

One more thing to be grateful for, in the wake of this weekend's incredibly attended funeral, with family and friends from all across the country, there was a truckload of leftover corn beef, pastrami and Jewish Deli cookies.


In Marilyn's honor, I'm going to make sure it all gets eaten.



Some of you will recognize this as the poster image for Poltergeist, a movie about a family that moves into a new family housing project built on top of an ancient Indian burial ground.

The ghosts of the Indians are not happy, though they never seemed to get upset with the construction of the nearby Chick Filet or Best Buy, and decide to wreak havoc on the family.

The movie was one the first major successes for a young writer by the name of Steven Spielberg.

It was also my first major contact with Hollywood people.

You see, at the time of the movie's release I was managing the kitchen for a booming restaurant on Santa Monica Blvd. It was a cowboy-themed Steak & Rib House with sawdust on the floor and a mechanical bull sitting center stage.

It was here that I developed a healthy appreciation for any kind of music that wasn't country western.

In order to supplement the sometimes-sagging restaurant revenue, the owner rented the space out for private parties. Our first was the wrap party for Poltergeist. It was a night to remember. I met the Director, the Producers and the entire cast.

Little did I know, that like the characters they played in the film, their time on Earth was limited.


To date, the curse has only struck cast members and not those tangentially affiliated with the movie, like the fat guy from NY (me) who made the ribs and steak and gourmet macaroni and cheese.

And in keeping with this week's theme (see yesterday's post), that's the positive spin of today's story.

If anything, my life has been blessed. With a beautiful wife, two smart and sassy daughters, a home, a job, and friends and family that for some unknown reason are willing to put up with my shit.

No Poltergeist Curse here.

I have to cut this posting short. My wife was just about to take a bath and she told me the lightbulb above the tub needs changing...


There's a meme (I still can't figure out how to pronounce that word) floating around the Internet that goes something to the effect of 'Try to live a week of your life without complaining.'

The thinking goes, that if you refrain from the negative and surround yourself with positive energy, the world will return the favor with all its incumbent blessings.

I don't know if that's true.

I'm hardly a spiritual being.

In fact, I'd describe myself as a good-hearted nihilist, an oxymoron in anyone's book.

I don't subscribe to the belief in energy fields. Or Karma. Or other dimensions other than what the scientists can see and measure. And Neil Degrasse Tyson can squeeze onto a TV show.

However, we are in the middle of the High Holy Days and, despite the contention of my wife, I'm always up for trying new things. Particularly if it involves spicy food. Or anything from pages 39-54 of the Adam and Eve catalogue.

Is this going to be easy? It most assuredly will not.

If nothing else, this blog is a constant conveyor belt of non-stop grumbling and grousing, carping and kvetching. Topped off by our new tagline, voted on by 9 loyal readers:

RoundSeventeen, No artificial sweeteners.

But here's something you didn't know about me. I'm a closeted optimist.

This never ceased to amaze my old partner, John Shirley. Faced with daunting odds, myopic clients and shoestring budgets, I always felt we could muscle through any situation and come up with a winning solution. Always.

"When we're shooting this spot in London with Frederick Bond, it'll be great."

John would roll his eyes and start telling me about the last Simpsons episode he watched and why every town needed a Monorail.

In any case, in light of the recent success we've enjoyed with our four part series and our themed weeks, the next few days will adhere to a strict "Think Positive" motif.

With uplifting stories.
Kinder, gentler anecdotes.
Cuddly puppies.
And fresh cut sunflowers.

It's probably gonna suck.


Tag it.

Like yesterday's post, today we are also using a misleading picture.

I stumbled across this visual and thought it was too good to pass up. Besides, it's marginally related to today's topic.

Marginally.

You see it's Rosh Hashana.

Happy New Year to all my fellow members of the Tribe.

In the dreary spirit of long drawn out synagogue services, worthless Bible stories about goat herders begetting other goat herders, and the outrageously festive ritual of dipping brown apple slices in honey that has been sitting in the back of the refrigerator shelf since March Madness, it's also that time of year when we discard the old RoundSeventeen tagline and usher in the new one.

The more astute readers will recognize this as one of my trusty fallbacks. That is, an easy way to squeeze out a post when there is nothing much else to write about.

I've employed this trick several times in the past. And to be completely honest, this week I'm feeling a little melancholy because we just dropped our oldest daughter off at college and the emptiness in the house is still quite palpable.

But the funny must go on.

So without further ado, here are your tagline options which I know you will not vote on:


RoundSeventeen. Now with 23% more cynicism.

RoundSeventeen. No shirt, no shoes, no snark.

RoundSeventeen. Irrelevant and built to stay that way.

RoundSeventeen. Your daily dose of self-immolation.

RoundSeventeen. I can't believe I get paid to write this stuff. Oh wait, I don't.

RoundSeventeen. 500 words of fresh jackoffery.

RoundSeventeen. When there's nothing good on BuzzFeed.

RoundSeventeen. A literary exercise in underachievement.

RoundSeventeen. We don't do revisions.

RoundSeventeen. No artificial sweeteners.


This is a post about job title inflation. It's not the first time I've written about it and it probably won't be the last, as it is a major pet peeve.

While doing an image search for this post I came across an article with the 30 worst examples of job title inflation. At the top of the list was Erection Engineer. That title was accompanied by the picture you see above.

It's admittedly click bait, but I've never given you any reason to believe I'm above that.

Weeks ago, you might recall, I promoted myself to Chairmen of the Rich Siegel Worldwide organization. First, because we can never have too many chairmen in this world. And secondly, to point out the ridiculous nature of workplace nomenclature.

The fact of the matter is I'm a copywriter.

I don't need any further Orwellian newspeak attached to that title in order to impress anybody. And frankly when I come across people who roll out the Senior Vice President or Chief Officer or Executive Group Blah Blah Blah, I'm not impressed.

If anything I'm unimpressed -- there should be a better word for that -- I'm depressed.

In my fantasy utopian world where everything I say is right and everyone who thinks otherwise is not, I would roll back all this title nonsense.

Let's say a kid graduates from one of the outrageously expensive advertising schools littered throughout the land. And let's say he or she wants to pursue a career in copywriting. And let's say he or she is genuinely talented but still has a long way to go. And let's take this theoretical situation even further and say he or she had the goods to get immediately hired.

The first job out of the box should be Apprentice Copywriter. Because let's face it, he or she knows nothing about how ads are done in the real world.

With a few banner ads and FSI's under the belt, the first promotion should be to Junior Assistant Copywriter.

In a year's time, maybe two, and the writing of some solid emails blasts, internal videos and sizzle pieces, the word Junior can magically disappear.

Maybe the stars aligned and our talented aspiring writer managed to knock out a case study or even a radio spot or a print ad, then our Assistant Copywriter can proudly call home and start adjusting the linkedin page to include Associate Copywriter.

Finally, after earning some industry cred and earning the respect (and jealousy) of others, then, and only then, would he or she be given the title of Copywriter.

It's title deflation.

Not only is it more logical, it prevents those uncomfortable new business meetings when the CEO of a multi-billion dollar corporation is seated next to a 26-year old tattooed, pierced, keffiyeh-wearing clod who goes by the title, Senior EVP Group Content Curation Prophet.

At this point it should come as no surprise that I have equally strong feelings about who should and shouldn't be able to call themselves a Chief Creative Officer.


I've written often about the many shitty jobs I've held throughout my career.

I was an industrial pot washer at a hospital.
I drove a forklift.
I put in time as a landscaper.

And of course, I've toiled for many years as a copywriter. In fact recently I devoted a whole week's worth of postings detailing my less-than-ideal travails working with Taco Bell. (Web traffic almost doubled last week so you can be sure there will be more 4-part series in the future.)

Today, we're going in the other direction.

When I was a junior in college I decided to go it on my own. I would declare complete financial independence. By omitting my parents monetary support for an entire year, I would be eligible for much-needed financial assistance in my final senior year.

Of course to do that I couldn't get by on the $3.62 cents an hour job I had washing dishes at Brockway Dining Hall.

Fortunately, my father knew a guy. Actually he knew two guys, both of whom had exceedingly Italian last names. And were possibly made men. They managed a new bar on campus named Sutter's Mill.

It was rumored that the bar was nothing more than a front to launder cash. Those of you who've watched Breaking Bad know exactly what I'm talking about.

In any case, Sal called Tony, Tony called Paulie, Paulie called Vinnie, Vinnie called Joey, who wasn't anywhere to be found (if you know what I mean), so then Vinnie called Angie. I had never poured drinks before but none of that seemed to matter.

Next thing you know I'm sporting a Sutter's Mill Polo Shirt and I'm standing behind a bar in close proximity to the two things I enjoyed most: alcohol and women.

Moreover I was coming home every night with a thick wad of cash that reeked of cigarette smoke but was legal tender nonetheless. Even more importantly, Uncle Sam never saw a dime.

Wait, it gets better.

Sutter's Mill quickly became the most popular bar on campus. The bosses knew that to maintain that fun atmosphere, the employees needed to look like they were having fun. Every hour, on the hour, the bar manager, Richard, a 6 foot 6 inch rail thin black guy who came to work in a shirt and tie and a leather cowboy hat would ring a bell, stop everything and pour shots of Yukon Jack for all the bartenders on duty.

You think that's a college student dream job? You haven't heard the best part.

We packed it in every night and because the drinking age in New York State was 11 years old at the time, we had our fair share of brawling. We also had a team of menacing bouncers that could have and should have been playing on the front line for the lowly Syracuse Orangemen.

These guys were big, beefy and itching for the opportunity to earn their keep.

All of which gave me an unwarranted sense of bravado and power.

Power which I'm ashamed to admit I abused with great regularity. Whether it was rescuing a coed from some unwanted suitor or cutting off a guy because he had too much to drink or simply because I didn't like the cut of his jib, I could always appear braver than I had a right to.

"Gimme a Moosehead."

"No, you're done."

"Oh yeah, who says so?"

"I said so."

With one quick glance to the rare exit door, a bouncer would appear on the scene.

"Is there a problem here?"

And there never was.


If only there were bouncers in advertising.


Last week, my east coast doppelgänger George Tannenbaum told a great story about his grandfather, Morris, the worst tailor on the face of the Earth.

As is often the case, his Hebraic recollections of growing up in the Bronx, and in NY at large, fuel stories of my own.

My grandfather was also from the old country. Though when I speak with the few remaining relatives that are still among us, that old country always seems to change.

Sometime it's Poland and sometimes it's nearby shtetl's of Russia, Belarus or Ukraine.

The confusion is understandable as even today those borders are fluid at best.

They're also meaningless.

These were all ugly, cold, dirty villages populated by poor Jews who did their best to keep food on the table and keep out of the way of local, drunken goyim bent on beating up members of the tribe. I suppose it was a way to make them feel better about their own miserable lives.

So the beat up Jews got on a boat and came to America where they could get pounded on by a higher class of drunk.

Unskilled and uneducated, my grandfather drove a cab in NYC. I don't know how he afforded a hack license, as they were very expensive, but he did. And he made a living. Enough to sustain a family of three boys as well as the care and feeding of many racehorses at the Belmont track in Queens.

Once, the old man -- a sedentary chain smoker with an appetite for fatty creamed herring -- was staying at our house. He was recovering from his 7th heart attack, that's right 7, we Jews might have been defenseless against Cossacks but we can kick the shit out of cardiac arrest.

We happened to be watching TV story about a NYC cab driver who returned a briefcase with $50,000 in cash to its rightful owner. The cabbie was given a hearty Thank You and a crisp hundred dollar bill in return for his honesty and good will.

During a commercial break for Rheingold the dry beer, Rheingold is my beer, think of Rheingold whenever you buy beer, I turned to my grandfather.

"Would you have done that? Would you have called back the owner to get his briefcase full of money?"

"Absolutely," he replied.

Explaining, if some business guy was in my cab and I saw that he just left a briefcase with fifty thousand dollars in the back seat, I'd grab the case immediately.

Then, as he was walking away, I'd roll up my window. I'd grab a fluffy towel, fold it nicely and put it up against the window.

Then I would knock on that fluffy towel.

And if he didn't hear the knock, I would knock even harder.

He made the slightest tapping gesture.

Then, if he didn't hear me pounding my knuckle on the towel pressed lightly against the glass, I'd shout.

"Hey mister you forgot your briefcase full of cash," he whispered.

Like this and I repeated his whisper.

"Oh no, that's way too loud. Like this," he replied. "Hey mister…"

In a voice that was impossible to hear.

Of course, nobody with a briefcase of cash ever got in my grandfather's cab. And I doubt he ever got within a mile of that much money.

So his menschiness was never put in question.


(The fourth in a four part series detailing our 2001 descent into Taco Hell. At this point I should remind the reader this story happened 14 years ago and has no bearing on today's Taco Bell or their ad agency where I am frequently brought in as a freelancer. No bearing whatsoever.)


So by now, I hope I've painted a pretty vivid picture of a huge fast food account (Taco Bell) at the very end of its incredibly successful, though often bumpy, relationship with its advertising agency (Chiat/Day).

They knew they were shopping elsewhere.
We knew they were shopping elsewhere.
And despite the smiles, the overly-firm handshakes and the sugar-coated conference reports we were all simply going through the motions.

Nevertheless we were professionals.

And in the face of incredible odds actually managed to get one more spot with Gidget the chihuahua. Perhaps as a testament to Chuck Bennett and Clay Williams, the guys who put so much heart and effort into the campaign, this last Gidget spot still produces a smile.

It was written and art directed by John Payne and Gary Pascoe, two of the most talented guys to ever come through Chiat/Day.

My only contribution as Creative Director was selling it, reselling it and bringing it back to the table every time the client threatened to pull the plug.





Yesterday, I teased the conclusion of this story with the promise of Internet porn sensation, Sandee Westgate (seen above in black top).

We met her, along with hundreds of other impossibly-built aspiring models/actresses, at a casting session that can only be described as grueling. The script called for two hot women hand feeding Chalupas to one of our Road Trip guys in a sensual-but-safe-for-TV fantasy.

The women were only on screen for 4 seconds, but in the mind of my partner John Shirley and I, and every other male involved with the production, those 4 seconds were crucial.

With the wrong cast, the fantasy simply wouldn't look very authentic.

One 10 hour casting session turned into two. Two turned into three. And when we found out the production office was located near Roku Sushi, we thought why not go the extra mile and make this search as comprehensive as possible.

Because as I mentioned before, we were professionals.

Having made our thorough selections, we presented Sandee and her colleague to the Taco Bell clients.

They gave us their approval immediately. With one stipulation. They wanted both women to be completed vetted. They ran a fine upstanding organization with high morals and wanted to make sure the actors and actresses who represented Taco Bell were of the same caliber.

Thankfully, they were.

That was 14 years ago. If you were to Google Sandee Westgate, and I know that you will, you'd see she has successfully ridden this Internet thingie to success.

I don't think Taco Bell's business has changed much. I have to believe their core audience is still 14-17 year old boys. And sometimes those boys (the HFFU's for those of you in the biz) even get the Munchies. In essence, they're the same pimply faced guys that frequent Carl's Jr.

We know how Carl's successfully married the notions of horny and hungry, albeit in a very soft core manner with nothing racier than anything you might see on Skinemax.

What if Taco Bell were to take it to the next level? And make Sandee their new national spokesperson to capitalize on her digital prowess.

For one thing they'd have a much better chance of having something go viral. And furthermore, I'm willing to bet those same boys would be lining at the store waiting to get their hands on a Crunchy Gordita.

Well, at least their left hand.

Now that's Living Mas.

(The third in a four part series detailing my 2001 descent into Taco Hell)

With our concepts thoroughly scrubbed and approved, including a frame-by-frame storyboard that mapped out each of the thirty seconds -- a new height in anal retentiveness -- and our five demographically-correct actors properly cast, it was time to take to the road.

Of course, the premise of the campaign was a road trip so that made sense.

But it was also a point of necessity. You see, in the summer of 2001, the Screen Actor's Guild was on strike. Moreover, they were actively seeking Los Angeles-based shoots to disrupt and shut down.

So we, the agency, cast and crew, boarded a plane for Phoenix.

I don't know if there's a good time to be in Phoenix.
It's brown, ugly and hellishly hot.
I do know if someone were to make a list of the top ten months to be in Phoenix, August would not be among them.

How hot was it?
While passing by a restaurant with outdoor seating, we saw the workers applying 50 SPF sunscreen to the patio furniture.

Not only was the asphalt road hot enough to fry an egg on (I know because we did) it was hot enough to grill and blacken the chicken that egg came from.

Satan has a satellite office in Phoenix, right off West Yuma Road, across the street from the Subway sandwich shop.

The plan was to tech scout and shoot 5 commercials over a 17 day period that included many 12-14 hour shoots. That was a significant chunk of my summer. I thought, well at least I'll be at a nice hotel.

Again, this shows you how stupid and naive I could be in the age of the emerging holding company ad agency.

Our fully loaded van left the airport, we passed a bank, flashing the brutal 114 degree temperature, and 20 minutes later arrived at the front of the Phoenix Park Motor Inn.




If you're thinking it looks less like a hotel and more like an old nursing home, you'd be right on the nose. Because it was an old nursing home.

I don't know about you but I'm a little picky about where I lay my head down at night. I had no intention of spending my last days at Chiat/Day where, figuratively and literally, folks were spending their last days gasping for their last breaths of oxygen.

My inner Diva took over and I told the producer I wasn't going to be holed up for 17 sweaty nights in God's waiting room, a room that smelt of adult diapers and industrial-strength vitamins.

Particularly knowing that these cost cutting measures were put in place to maximize profits for our holding company overlords in their 5th Ave., 10 million dollar,  four-level town homes.

And I certainly wasn't going to do it in the service of an ungrateful, ball-pinching client, the kind of tighty-whitey wearing people who'd bring a Bible to a bachelor party.

So we, my art director John Shirley and I, moved.
To a hotel just down the street ,  where our Director, Jonathon David, was staying.
The hotel/resort was designed by some famous architect, I believe his name was Frank Lloyd Wright.


Sensing our imminent demise at the agency and saddled with an unstable account, John and I spent the next fortnight on a vigilant crusade to max out our per diem's. Employing our wits and our 500 miles away-from-home charm, we did everything we could to outfox the production accountants.

We really owe a huge debt of gratitude to Taco Bell and the mother company, YUM. They put us through a bit of hell but the shareholders rewarded us with a little bit of heaven.

We started every day with the room service breakfast, not with the $12 pitcher of fresh squeezed orange juice that easily serves 4, but the larger $22 pitcher, because the remaining orange juice in its beautiful Waterford decanter looked so nice against the rising desert sun.

We smoked cuban cigars, hand selected from the hotel's secret humidor.

And we drank mojitos made with rum imported not from Jamaica or the sugar canes of Hispaniola, but from the far reaches of Eastern Madagascar, not because it was better but simply because it was more expensive.

Mmmmm, Madagascar.

There's a statute of limitations on creative financial skullduggery, isn't there?



Tomorrow: Don't miss the conclusion of the Taco Hell adventure, including the on-set appearance of Internet Porn Sensation, Sandee Westgate.


(The second in a four part series detailing my 2001 descent into Taco Hell)

How do you follow up the Taco Bell chihuahua campaign?
How do you produce work that will produce immediate sales?
And how do you save an account in order to save your own ass and avoid the prospect of your children going to the DeVry Institute to study Cashiering?

These were the questions that kept me up night and day. And while vacationing in Kauai, I thought had the answer.

I called my partner, John Shirley, stateside and we started brainstorming an ambitious campaign that would take place in a small, fictional Mexican village in northern Sonora. Where, after a violent thunderstorm, a lightening bolt had hit a tree and left a haunting image emblazoned across its trunk.

Not of the Virgin Mary (as seen above), but of a Crunchy Chalupa.

John picked up on the vibe immediately and started working on comps. We always had a shorthand rhythm like that, where the ideas would come fast and furious.  We started envisioning pilgrimages to the tiny town. Villagers creating meat, beans and cheese shrines to the Holy Site. And interviews with the faithful who believed the Chalupa Tree had special healing powers.

Mostly, it cured a stoner's appetite for just $1.29.

But the premise gave us a platform to talk about the food, show the obligatory cheese pulls and poke fun at those who see apparitions, religious, comestible, or otherwise.

My boss, Lee Clow, saw the next evolution of the Taco Bell campaign going in a slightly different direction.

And while I still bemoan the death of the Chalupa Tree concept, you gotta give it up to Lee for his brilliant strategic vision.

His idea was to assemble 5 guys, put them in a van and send them on a road trip where they would make frequent stops at Taco Bells. They even brought the chihuahua, who would play a very small part in each spot, so as not to alienate the millions who still loved Gidget.

You might even remember this campaign.
I'm hoping you don't.

One spot featured the guys inside a Taco Bell while David, overcome with cheap fast food exuberance, started doing a white man rap.

My name is David,
My friends call me "G".
One hungry young dawg I be.
I'm cool like a penguin,
slick like a tuxedo,
so hook me up with gooey Encharito.

Chorus: Go David, it's your birthday, Go David it's your birthday.

Oh yeah!!!

I had to sit in an Orange County conference room and watch that get presented to a bunch of toe-tapping, gang-sign throwing, lily-white Promise Keepers.

BTW, I never approved the spot, but I bit my tongue and shut up. Because, as I had mentioned yesterday, with so many folks in upper management dropping massive turds in my career punchbowl, my employment status at the time was tenuous at best.

So where was the brilliance in Lee's plan?

In addition to shooting the heavily-scripted, watered down, executive approved spots, we handed each of our road trippers a Sony Handicam -- this was before iPhones. And we told them that during the course of the 17 day shoot, they could capture everything and anything they wanted on video.

From these hours and hours of raw, unscripted footage we would edit and piece together a campaign unlike anything on the air. With graphics and a voice-over narrative we could shape the stories, write the jokes, and deliver a breakthrough alternative that would blow the $55 cashmere blend-ribbed Paul Smith designed socks  off the client.

Well, that was the plan.

We, including Lee Clow on occasion, spent months in the edit bay and actually presented more than a dozen of these free, improvised, off the cuff spots. And at the risk of sounding immodest some of them were very good.

Of course, despite the sage counsel, the client didn't air any of them. Why, after all, would they listen to marketing advice from the man who teamed up with Steve Jobs to make Apple the 5th richest company on the planet?

Their reasoning was beyond reproach. And it all had to do with the sacred process.

None of the spots had been vetted, committee'd and subjected to focus groups and therefore hadn't earned the Taco Bell Clusterfuck Seal of Approval.


This week we're going to do something we've never done here at RoundSeventeen.

I'm going to tell of my adventures with America's leading purveyor of fast faux-Mexican food. But I'm going to do it four parts, because to compress it into one would simply not do the hi-jinx justice.

Keep in mind, this all happened in 2001, the year of our other great national tragedy. So this has absolutely no bearing on today's Taco Bell, its current marketing regime or their current ad agency, where I am sometimes employed on a freelance basis.

"We're not selling dog food!"

That was the battle cry from many Taco Bell franchisees in the spring of 2001. Methinks the owners and operators of Taco Bell doth protest a bit too much.

Nevertheless, the rank and file were tired of the Taco Bell chihuahua, Gidget, and the numerous catchphrases that digitally emanated from her mouth.

It isn't often that an ad agency (in this case, my alma mater Chiat/Day) produces a pop culture icon who appears in movies, TV shows, lunch boxes, coffee mugs and T-shirts, and generates millions of dollars in unforeseen merchandising.

It's even less common to have that same national advertiser request a 180 degree shift in direction and, in effect, demand the death of the goose that laid the Golden Egg. Or, the Chihuahua that deep-fried the Cheesy Gordita.

"Kill the dog!"

Had Jay Chiat still been at the helm, I'm sure he would have had some choice words for the khaki pants and polo shirted half wits in Irvine. Not only would he have resigned the account, the next day he would have pitched the talking chihuahua to the folks at Del Taco. And more advertising history would have been made.

But at this point Chiat/Day had been swallowed up by a holding company. And holding companies don't like to lose $200 million accounts. Those holding company yachts, private jets, 24 hour a day Town Car limos and discreet top shelf escort services don't pay for themselves.

While this drama was unfolding, our stock -- meaning my partner John Shirley and I -- was dropping faster than the hull of the Exxon Valdez.

The glow from our somewhat infamous ABC Yellow campaign had long faded. And though we were winning awards for our other client Earthlink, we weren't winning new subscribers.

Inside the agency walls, John and I weren't making friends. We were contrarian, combative, and uncompromising.  And spent a fair amount of time answering complaints via the HR department. In other words, we were being creatives.

And that's when it happened.

Not unlike the prisoner who gets that unwelcome and unexpected tap on the shoulder from the biggest, baddest triple murderer in Cell Block D.

"Hey you know that huge, obstinate dumbass client that hates the agency, hates the campaign, hates Playa Vista, hates this building, and hates the fact that they paid for the expensive art work in this building?

They're yours now.

You guys are the new Creative Directors on Taco Bell."


Today's post will enflame many of you.

That's because I know many Californians worship at the altar of In-N-Out Burger. I am not one of you.

In addition to testosterone, the Kardashians, and the excessive use of the word, "cute", it is among the many things that separate myself from my wife and two daughters.

I can't remember a single road trip without the obligatory, over-enthusiastic pit stop at an In-N-Out.

Frankly, I don't get it. Their burgers are not great. They're not even good.

If you were to de-construct an In-N-Out burger you'd see the patty was no better than the gruel served at McDonalds. It's thin. It's grey. And it's flavorless. So flavorless that it needs to be enhanced with lettuce, tomato, cheese, pickles, onion, mustard, Thousand Island dressing and a thick bready bun better suited for drying spilt milk off the counter.

People who enjoy In-N-Out burger are really eating a salad, that's been flavored like a hamburger.

When I was in college, I had many jobs. Of course when you attend an expensive private university and your parents shoulder you with the tuition bills, full time employment is more of a given than an option. One year I found myself working as a line cook at a gastro-pub  -- they were just called bars at the time -- in South Syracuse.

I believe the name was PJ's.

PJ's was home to the 10 ounce, Grade A, sirloin burger. Each patty was hand weighed, sculpted to perfection and then flame broiled over a scorching hot grill. Unless requested otherwise, each burger left the kitchen a perfectly pink Medium Rare, guaranteeing maximum juicosity.

Similarly, every burger went out unadorned.

Pickles, lettuce, tomato, onions, or any other accoutrement was placed on the side. Though many were ordered with a thick slice of perfectly aged, perfectly melted, sharp cheddar cheese.

If I've used the word perfect too much it's only because this burger was.

I know the comparison is unfair. Just as the praise heaped on your precious Double Double is unwarranted. Fact is, that burger isn't worth the paper it's wrapped in. Frankly, I wouldn't feed it to my dog. Of course my dog had her gall bladder removed 6 months ago and is on a very restricted diet.

But even if I did, I like to think she has good taste and wouldn't go near it.

I know I won't.


Please forgive me for the usage of this stock photo, found easily on Google images.

As I have noted in the past, teasers like this often result in increased web traffic. Which is very important right now as we prepare RoundSeventeen for its IPO and eventual sale to Google for 3.8 billion dollars.

Like I said, it's all about marketing, a field I thought I knew something about. With each passing day however, that expertise seems to be waning.

War story time.

Years ago I was hired to do a freelance gig. It was a one week affair. A run and gun, drink some coffee, bring an extra set of clothes, bitch of a pitch.

I'm not very fond of these affairs and never believed the best creative is produced under these conditions. But, as my niece -- a guidance counselor -- once pointed out in a book of job definitions for graduating high schoolers, a Copywriter must be able to sparkle on demand.

On this particular job I was teamed up with another copywriter. That doesn't happen too often but he was a colleague and someone I had known for many years. He's also one of the few people who can hold his own in a battle of wits, despite being raised in Wisconsin.

We were briefed at 9:30 AM and by 9:45 AM had fallen into a comfortable rhythm.

We were riffing.
Writing.
And sparkling on demand.

We maintained this scorching pace throughout the day. Interrupted by several bitch sessions about being married, fathering children, scummy Hollywood agents, other hacky copywriters, and again about being married.

At 6 o'clock we got a phone call from the Creative Director who had briefed us just 9 hours earlier. He was offsite but wanted to see the work. And told us to email everything we had by the end of the day.

So we stopped looking at Turkish Bestiality Porn and knocked out a couple of more scripts.

At 8 PM, we hit the Send button, a hastily-written note and 16 fully written scripts. That was some serious sparkling.

The very next morning we approached the swaggering Creative Director and solicited some feedback.

"The packet was a little thin."

That was his response.
Verbatim.
16 scripts.
One day.
And the packet was a little thin!

I thought we were in the business of solving a client's business challenge with strategic, disruptive communications, I didn't get the memo we were now in business of pumping out marketing manure by the pound.

As if that doesn't defy logic, consider our reactions.

I, born and bred in New York, wanted to clock this ass nugget and share with him some of the wisdom I've learned in my 44 years on this earth. But I bit my lip and smiled.

My Wisconsin compatriot was even more steamed.

"The packet was thin," he muttered under his breath.

Sensing his anger, I wedged my body between my midwestern colleague and the shit-for-brains Creative Director. You probably don't know many people from Wisconsin, but I'm here to tell you, they're preternaturally nice and usually not prone to violence.

Usually.

But pacifism prevailed.

In the end, none of the 87 scripts we wrote that week made it into the 534 page deck presented to the client. And the agency we were working for, didn't win the pitch. In fact they had their pockets picked and lost the account.

Two hardworking, hard sparkling copywriters enjoyed a heaping helping of schadenfreude.

If I were Superman, and clearly with my barrel-chested body type and penchant for salty snacks, I'm not. But if I were Superman, pretentiousness would be my Kryptonite.

Perhaps it's because I grew up with working class roots and lived in a town, Suffern, NY, that somehow lived up to its name.

In any case, I have such a visceral reaction to phony, hipster bullshit that I cannot let it go unchallenged.

With that I'd like to introduce you to David Shing, who often goes by the singular moniker of Shingy.


Normally I'd have made a snide comment about that. Or his nail polish. Or the funny glasses. Or even the hair-don't. But I don't want this to be a personal attack. I don't know him and it would be wrong of me to use this pulpit to shit on Shingy.

This is more about the message than the messenger.

Besides, he has done numerous interviews, where he bills himself as a Digital Prophet, and put out some very impressive videos, which in my opinion, are more damning that anything I could possibly come up with.




Between the suspended lightbulbs, the moody music and the hand gestures I didn't get too far in the video. He lost me when, he started babbling on about…

"Where people are going to cluster in small villages, or tribes. And understand they can have deep intimate communications. And I think we're yearning for those experiences."

Oh Shingy please.

Yeah, the other night my wife wanted to go to a movie but I told her I was going to be on the Internet with my tribe of Claussen's Sauerkraut lovers discussing new variations on the Reuben Sandwich.

I added that I might not be able to drive my youngest daughter to her SAT prep class because I was having deep intimate communications with one of the tribe members who was working on some new Vines with slow cooked corned beef.

The truth is, I couldn't get past 38 seconds of Shingy unique brand of bull. Mostly because what he and other marketing gurus, has to say, has no application in the real world of advertising.

Few are the brands that can actually make a difference in this world. And it's because of their products, not because of their live tweeting or InstaGram shenanigans.

I've got news for all you game-changers, planet savers, media artists and plaid-short wearing, rose-sippers, ours is the world of tent sales, 20% off coupons, and Buy One Get One Free. That's the stuff that pays the bills and keeps the lights on.

For all I know Shingy is a good guy. I know he's a smart guy. He gets paid to speak at industry symposiums. I don't speak at industry symposiums. I don't even get paid to write about the digital ninjas and the HTML flim-flammers who speak at industry symposiums.

But he lives in a delusional world. And like all prophets, digital or otherwise, has made a living shoveling shit and putting the kibosh on critical thinking.

If you're buying what Shingy is shilling, perhaps you should look into the Rapture Hatch:


Of my many, many, many faults, my family will tell you the most obnoxious is my compulsion to beat a good joke to death. It's driven my wife to solo paddle boarding. And my daughters will tell you, they can't leave the house and go to college fast enough.

This predisposition to wring every last laugh out of a joke -- good or bad -- is my Achilles heel. Maybe it's common affliction among all 44 year old men.

In any case, today we're reaching into the files, revisiting Mother Russia and the glory of the 2014 Winter Olympics.

We do this not only because I stumbled across this treasure trove of captioned pictures that so succinctly capture the unfinished, shabbily-constructed spirit of Sochi but also because Vladimir Putin, his man boobs and his vodka-soaked stormtroopers are in the news.

But before we work ourselves up into a frenzy about Ukraine, whose track record of Nazi collaboration  leaves me a little unenthusiactic about coming to their aid, and before we put any American soldiers in harm's way, let's remember who we shouldn't be getting frenzied about.

A wannabe superpower that is not so super.
Not even when they're sober.

Cue the Beatles and roll out the dead horse:



Feb. 10, 2004. Sochi, Russia -- Olympic visitors find it difficult to recharge their iPhones.







Feb. 11, 2014. Sochi, Russia -- Olympic officials remind the athletes to stay hydrated.







Feb. 12, 2014. Sochi, Russia -- Hotel utility workers unable to turn off the heat.







Feb. 13, 2014. Sochi, Russia -- "I tried jiggling the handle."







Feb. 14, 2014, Sochi, Russia -- Security officials say, "so far we haven't seen any imminent threats."







Feb. 17, 2014. Sochi, Russia -- Winning athletes have been upgraded to luxury suites with built-in soap dispensers.







Feb. 18, 2014. Sochi, Russia -- Homeowners next to Olympic biathlon course plan lawsuits.






Feb.19, 2014 Sochi, Russia -- Food running scarce at Olympic venues. Russian farmers are working overtime to fix situation.






Feb. 20, 2014. Sochi, Russia -- Polish Hockey team unable to enter the newly-constructed practice arena.







Feb. 21, 2014. Sochi, Russia -- The 4-Man PlopShed.







Feb.23, 2014 Sochi, Russia -- To celebrate the end of the Olympic Games and in anticipation of the arrival of warmer weather, local women folk celebrate with the ceremonial drinking of the vodka through the flip-flop.


As you can see I just made a trip to the local Home Depot.

Not for a new motion detector.
Not for a new O-rings for the leaky faucet.
And not for one of those extendable Swiffy things so I can reach up high and dust the top of the ceiling fans which haven't been touched since they came out of the box in 1997.

No, those projects can all wait.

I've got mice on my mind.
And my mind on my mice.

If you're from Southern California you are surely aware we live among millions of mice and tree rats. On any given night you can see them scurrying across power lines, running from telephone pole to telephone pole, at speeds that would make any Flying Wallenda jealous.

Now that we're in a drought situation, the mice and the rats find themselves up Shit's Creek without a creek.

They're thirsty. And they're desperate. None of this seems to bother one of my neighbors who runs a patio fountain 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. I asked her to shut the rodential watering hole down at nighttime and she just stared at me.

Why am I surrounded by such an asinine crowd of white trash? I thought the point of owning (OK the bank owns it) a million dollar home was to get away from these cretins.

Anyway, in years past, I was willing to ignore the nocturnal activity. They were out of sight, out of mind. But last week, while pedaling the recumbent bike in my garage, I saw a plucky little bastard had taken one of the Heirloom tomatoes from my garden and was pushing the meaty vegetable across the driveway to his little rat nest.

By the time I had leapt off the bike he had disappeared into the bushes. With my fresh bowl of salsa no less.

That tomato across the driveway was a direct shot across the bough.

It's war.
And it's on.

I've already deployed my arsenal. And at this writing have snagged four of the little buggers. Actually, one of them wasn't so little. It was a Norwegian Tree Rat and was about two milkshakes shy of being a Chihuahua.

Had I been true to the principles espoused by Les Stroud, Bear Grylles and other survivalists/hunters that I enjoy on the Manly Channel, I would have skinned it, cleaned it and roasted it over an open fire.

I'm told grilled rat tastes just like chicken. But as luck would have it, my wife had already defrosted a chicken for dinner that night.

Maybe next time.

Dear Mr. Bornstein,

As neighbors on Washington Blvd. in Culver City, California, we have always maintained a cordial and respectful relationship.

As you may know, our congregation religiously abstains from all pork products, including ham, sausage and even the mouth-watering St. Louis Baby Back ribs served at Lucille's at the nearby Westfield Shopping Center.  Accordingly we would like to ask the NFL Network and the NFL organization to stop referring to football as a "pigskin."

This is but a small dispensation your organization can make in order to preserve our special friendship and please the will of Allah (PBUH.)

To show we are reasonable people with reasonable demands, we have taken the liberty of providing you with suitable alternatives, including:

Leather spheroid

Ovalball

Ellipsoidball

I thank you in advance.

Likewise, per our earlier correspondence, we will soon have the new burqa designs that our congregation believes will be a pleasing wardrobe alternative for your NFL cheerleaders.


Stop me if you've seen this movie before.

And I wouldn't be surprised if you had, because this scenario plays out every day in every ad agency across the country, from the wickedly-inspired hallways of Weiden Kennedy in Portland to the anabolic steroid-laced hallways of Zimmerman Advertising in Fort Lauderdale.

A senior planner hands a Creative Director a meticulously-crafted planning brief.

He is peacock proud of the brief's brevity, insight and mapping potential towards marketing success. As the sacred document is passed from one professional to the next, a slight addendum is added.

"We need to show the client something in three days."

"Slow your roll," the Creative Directors responds, "How long have you been working on this brief?"

"About two months. We had initial research. Data Analysis. Loop backs. Deep dives. More research. Oh and then the CMO went to Machu Pichu. So really only 6 weeks," the planner replies, with not a hint of guilt.

The Creative Director, having just enrolled her kids in an expensive private school, bites her lip and tells her team to do the best they can.

And in three days time they do.

The work goes down to the client and in one of those meetings that can only happen in advertising, the Associate Chief Marketing Officer claims he never signed off on the initial brief.

He seizes the opportunity to do a little grandstanding of his own, because he just put a down payment on a Porsche Carerra, and instructs the agency to come back with work in a different direction.

His direction.

The senior planner, with all his various degrees in demographics, psychographics and social media metric confabulation, could push back and contest the point, but he and his wife just bought a new town home. And the formica counters in the kitchen need to be replaced with granite.

And so, the original precious planning brief, the one that incubated for 6 weeks and was pored over with loving care and undue attention, is tossed in the trash can in favor of a new brief. The one that was angrily ad-libbed by the ambitious Associate CMO who is eager to tell the world he has a small penis.

The cynical among you, that's almost all of you, might be thinking, why do we need Planning at all if the client is going to reject our council and write their own briefs based on nothing more than gut instinct and that morning's caffeine intake?

But as a seasoned ad veteran who has spent considerable time in the industry, I know that every problem is also an opportunity.

The silver lining in this case is I can extend my already lengthy career even longer by transitioning into the Planning Department. That's right, I'll become a Copywriter/Planner.

As a hybrid creative/strategist I'll be uniquely positioned to take advantage of the aforementioned scenario. And short circuit the all-too-familar strategic clusterfuck to my advantage.

For instance, I don't need 6 weeks to write a crappy brief. I can do it in three. Which leaves me ample time to work on my online chess game and perfect the Sicilian Gambit.

And crappy ads for my crappy brief?
Well, God knows I have plenty of practice writing those.

It's the perfect plan for a 44 year old.
Who knows, I might get another dozen years out of this industry.


In the earlier incarnations of this blog, I wrote much shorter posts.

And I squeezed out articles based on the thinnest of premises, an odd photo, something my daughter said, or even a bumper sticker I had comes across.

Then I caught the writing bug and started 'going off' on anything. And it seems, everything.

That's how we got to more than 1100 posts.
Which is nothing to sneeze at, considering how shallow and uninformed yours truly can be.

Today, in light of the upcoming Labor Day weekend, I'm returning to those roots and taking the easy way out.

Last week, I took the time to look at the carton of light beer I like to drink, Beck's Light. They pack a lot of good Teutonic beer flavor into those 64 calories.

That's when I noticed something odd about the labeling. (See picture above)

They say a picture is worth a thousand words.

Wait until the very verbose Rabbi Marvin Hier of the Simon Wiesenthal Center sees this.

I'm sure this will merit quite the stern letter. And if I know the good rabbi and his hypersensitivity to anything remotely Holocaust, it'll be a thousand words and then some.

There is a meme floating around the Internet that goes something to the effect of:

Another day of life, Another day I never used Algebra.

I get it, algebra is useless.

The same can probably be said of Organic Chemistry, Roman Mythology and Wood Shop.

Truth is, we learned a lot of shit in high school and college that has very little application in real life.

I've always contended there should be more hands on courses like Navigating Marriage 101, Introduction to Pleasing Your Parents, and Advanced Leave Daddy Alone, but that's another blog, for a later date.

Surprisingly there is one course that has come in very useful in my career as an advertising copywriter: Geometry.

I'll explain why.

You're all familiar with the Pythagorean Theorem that states the sum of the squares of the sides of a right triangle equals the square of the hypotenuse. Or:


But did you know there are more than 400 ways to prove this particular theorem?

Proving theorems accounts for the majority of most Geometry classes. I didn't know it at the time but the practice of laying out a theorem proof could be the most useful skill I obtained in four years of high schooling. That, and the proper selection of underarm deodorant.

Constructing a proof, whether it's Pythagorean or the countless other theorems, requires a discipline, logic and sometimes even creative flair. In many ways it's the same thought process that goes into writing a screenplay, an ad or even a blog post.

There's a beginning, an exploratory middle and a satisfying conclusion.

Properly executed, it's precise and persuasive.

When you do enough of them you can begin to find art and unexpected elegance in every proof.

I don't use Algebra every day, but I do put my Geometry skills to use every time I step up to the keyboard. Clacking away with the hope that I will deliver something compelling, articulate and insightful.

Clearly today was not one of those days.


On February 26th, 1993, a group of Muslim terrorists set off a truck bomb in the basement of one of the World Trade Center buildings. The bomb killed 6 people and did extensive damage to the underground structure. It did not, however, topple one building into the next as the planners had hoped.

I remember watching that incident on the news and laughing to myself, thinking do these assclowns actually think they can take down the World Trade Center?

My flippant reaction, and that of our government, represented a monumental miscalculation.

Today, 21 years later, we, who are busying ourselves with cat videos or submerging ourselves in buckets of ice water for worthy charities, are guilty of the same faulty misjudgment.

I'd like you to watch a video.

No women are being stoned. No children are being bombed. And no American journalists are having their heads separated from their torsos in the name of an almighty, loving and merciful God.

But in many ways, this is even more disturbing and more chilling.





We know how the masked, gun-toting militants ravaging through Syria and Iraq feel about establishing a Caliphate -- a one world government designed to bring the planet's entire population under the laws of Allah.

This video shows us how some of the more "rational" followers of Islam feel about the impending unification of the Ummah.

What is most shocking is the cavalier attitude. There is an uncontested notion the Caliphate is coming and we must all, Muslims and soon-to-be-Muslims, live under Sharia law.

It's not a matter of if. It's only a matter of when.

Thankfully and not surprisingly two of the woman state their opposition, though they hardly make a forceful case. Lest they upset their male overlords.

What I find most frightening is how even the most soft-spoken of the men has no issue with the actual establishment of a one government, one religion, one-size-fits-all system of 9th century barbaric Neandarfuck totalitarianism.

It would be easy to dismiss all this if it were espoused by a few hundred, a few thousand or even a few million faithful followers. But Islam is practiced by 1.6 billion people, almost one out of every 4 humans on the planet. And if this video is any indication, I happen to believe it is, the majority of them are eagerly awaiting the day for the Caliphate to come. You know, so things can get better.

Just as in 1993, the warning signs are out there. You can go back to your ice bucket challenges, but the rise of ISIS, the savagery of Hamas, and the naked ambition of Islam should be a pressing concern for all of us.

Particularly if you are:

A woman
A Christian
A Jew
An atheist
A homosexual
A bisexual
A fornicator
A football fan
A Democrat
A Republican
A Libertarian
A Progressive
A beer drinker
A sommellier
A writer, painter, artist or photographer
A critical thinker
A Kafir
A dhimmi
A human being

Or just someone who loves a pulled pork sandwich on crusty toasted ciabatta bread


Last week, my wife and I ventured north to the Emerald City for a college orientation at the University of Washington, UDUB. It brought back vivid memories, of a long time ago, when my parents and I stepped foot on the hallowed grounds of Syracuse University.

Oh wait, no it didn't.

You see my parents never did any of the mishegas I find myself doing on behalf of my daughter's higher education.

An hour and half long seminar on the University's health resources and facilities, sign me up.

A 45 minute tutorial on dorm room organization, save me a seat.

A 5-mile walking tour of the enormous campus including a detailed explanation of the university's extensive recycling program and a thorough dissertation on the difference between Composting Material and Organic Waste, that's a memory-maker.

Al & Isabel Siegel would have none of that nonsense.

Here's the way it all went down for me. When I was 12 we took a family road trip to Hamilton in Canada to visit my mom's sister and her family. On the way up Route 81, my father spotted the unmistakable buildings of Syracuse University.

We pulled off the highway, rolled up East Adams Street, followed by a slow cruise down Comstock Ave. and looped back to Route 81. The "tour" lasted all of 5 minutes. No sooner did we turn onto the NY State Thruway did my father turn around and pronounce…

"That's where you're going to college."

No inordinately expensive application counselors.
No SAT tutors.
No exploration of any other choices.

Nor was any of that necessary.
It was Syracuse University.
And if the check cleared, my father reasoned, they'd accept my boy.

Because UDUB is on the quarter system, school doesn't start for another 3 weeks. And I'll be returning for another trip. This time to drop her off and move all her belongings into her room. She's in a crappy dorm but she's on the 8th floor and it has a hotel-like view of Union Bay.



I'm sure it will be a gut wrenching, 3 Kleenex box affair. Which again differs from that day 26 years ago when my parents shlepped me and my crap up to Sadler Hall on a cold Saturday in late September.

We drove for 4 & 1/2 hours.

My parents smoked their way through three packs of cigarettes, interrupted only by some fevered fighting. We dragged the boxes into the building because Al wasn't about to dole out 8 bucks to rent a hand truck.

We met my roommate and his parents from a very wealthy area of Long Island. My father, from the mean streets of the Bronx, assumed they were mobbed up and whispered to me, "don't accept any favors from him."

And that was it.

Dad shook my hand. Mom cried a little. They bought some more cigarettes and got back in the car for the 4 & 1/2 hour drive back.

And then, it started snowing.


Across the street from the Bristol Farms, where I get my daily lunch of tuna fish, fresh fruit and cottage cheese, there is a medical marijuana dispensary.

I'm not sure of the name.
I know it's not Doug's Weed Store.
It's usually something more affected like Grace, Sunshine, or Herbal Caregivers.

And every day, I see an eclectic cross section of Angelenos go into the store to be given their special care.

It's all so amazingly nonchalant. In fact, today I am in Seattle, where one doesn't even need a "medical affliction" to be "prescribed" a spliff of Blue Haze.

What a far cry from my youth, when we would literally risk life and limb in order to score some Mary Jane.

If I may indulge, one night my buddies and I were loitering around Greenwich Village. There, in the shadow of NYU, we often found dealers willing to relieve us of our hard earned suburban dollars in exchange for a plastic baggie of reefer.

But on this one particular evening we were having no such luck.

"Tuinal. Seconal. Uppers. Downers. Qualudes. you want em, I got em," barked the peddlers under the arch of Washington Square.

We were just four 16 year old boys from Suffern, NY who had no desire to pop pills. We just wanted to get high. And then we ran across two black guys who could help.

They had weed, they explained. Only it was back at their apartment. In Harlem.

That might have bothered or intimidated some, but it didn't phase our buddy Jim, who was as fearless as they come.

"Let's go," he said, pointing to his sea foam green Dodge Dart parked illegally on Bleeker Street.

And with that, Jim was off to 127th street with his two new BFFs.

We waited. We watched the jugglers, the unicyclists, the clowns, the street entertainers who would work hard enough to collect enough coins for the next meal. Or Malt liquor.

One hour turned into two.
Two turned into three.
And our imaginations ran wild.
How would we explain Jim's disappearance to his parents? More importantly, how would we get out of the city without Jim's trusty Dodge? And should we get on an uptown train and start scouring 125th street for our friend?

This last question merited very little discussion.

Just as we lost all hope, Jim arrived, smiling from ear to ear as if he had already sampled the goods.

He showed us the twenty dollar bag, enough to last the rest of the night and keep us laughing the entire ride back to the suburbs. But it didn't. Because most of what was in the little plastic baggie was nothing more than store-bought oregano.

A story born.
A lesson learned.
Caveat emptor.

We never got our "care" from Harlem again.


Where's my check, Ariana?

If you've been following the blog lately you know in the past week or so, I've had three, er....four stories republished on the Huffington Pos t.

I'm not saying this to brag. If anything I should be ashamed of myself. If I could write worth a damn I'd have several books published by now, like my skilled friends, Jim Jennewein, Kathy Hepinstall, Toby Barlow, Ernie Schenck, etc.

Instead, like the schmuck who gets the soup spilled on him by a klutzy schlemiel, I give it away for free.  For the hollow promise of 'national exposure.'

That, and $3.50 will get me a small latte at Starbucks.

Of course, as my published writing friends will tell you, there's not a whole lot of money in the paid-for-publishing world as well.

It sucks to be a writer…er, content creator, these days.

And I blame it all on the Internet.

Thanks to the world wide webs, people can't be bothered to drop 50 cents for a daily newspaper. High brow magazines like National Lampoon, Spy and Mad, are no longer purchased and brought into the stall for a good laugh.  And an even better expulsion.

They've all been replaced by Vines and Instagrams and BuzzFeed quizzes that don't even approach funny.

But the public, and I'm looking at you regular readers of RoundSeventeen, loves them because they're Free.

They used to say, "Funny is Money." That was before some four-eyed Silicon Valley geeks started confibulating the flik-flacks and modulating the flux capacitor and pumping the Internet into the ether.

Growing up, I had dreams of becoming the next Art Buchwald or the more WASP-y P.J. O'Rourke.

I would dash off some biting satire or vomit some stream of consciousness ha-ha's onto the page and the adoring public would shower me with wheel barrels full of greenbacks. Enough to pay for a huge house with a huger backyard and enough room for my own personal lap pool so I wouldn't have to slosh around with the unwashed masses.

But you ruined that for me, Internet.

And all your online restaurant reviews, free fetish porn and easy-to-navigate driving maps will not make up for it.

Sporting events have to be watched live.

The DVR simply does not suffice. It records the game or the match or the fight fine, but if I accidentally find out the result, it all becomes moot. And like a recent insightful Hyundai commercial  (produced by my very smart friends) it's impossible NOT to know the results.

This maxim holds true for most sports.
Not all.

Last week I came across the coverage of the 2013 Kona Ironman. It took place a year ago. And to be honest, I don't really care who won.

In fact, I'm much more interested in the "losers."

Let's be clear about this. There's nothing as boring as watching people swim, bike or run on TV. And yet, like the airings of The Godfather, 12 Angry Men, or Bridge Over the River Kwai, I cannot pull myself away from watching.

I suspect it stems from my own participation in the sport.

I competed in my first triathlon when I was 26, for those of you who are counting, that was eighteen years ago. Growing up I was never involved in any organized athletics. Not in junior high, high school or college. I played Little League baseball and always incurred the wrath of the teammates and teammate's fathers on the bench.

"I bet the fat Jew strikes out. Again."

And of course, I always did.

Nevertheless I always felt like an athlete. So when I moved to California, I started running. And I started competing in 10K races. My obsession grew, so I added swimming. Before long I was doing Tri's and became well versed in carbo-loading, cross fit training and the benefits of ketosis.

The longest triathlon I did covered 1.2 miles in the ocean, 40 miles on the bike followed by 6.2 mile run. It is the Olympic distance and it went by the book. Except for the rib crushing kicks in the water, the flat tire and the bloody blisters. But I finished.

In fact, if I stepped up to the starting line I vowed to myself to always cross the finish line.

At the peak of my involvement I dreamed of crossing the finish line at Kona. That dream never came to fruition. And now with chronic heel pain it never will. I'll never forget the day the orthopedic surgeon showed me the x-ray, pointing out the heel spur, "that's the biggest I've eve seen." If only I had heard something like that from my urologist.

In any case, watching and hearing the stories of those that hurl themselves, despite all odds, over that incredible threshold is nothing less than inspiring. And can often have me grabbing for the Kleenex.

The father with the special needs son.
The woman who lost a leg to diabetes.
The 78-year old widow who wanted to honor his departed wife.

It's all a testament to the better part of the human spirit.

Ample proof that pain is ultimately endurable. Including the pain, I suppose, of fathering two increasingly surly teenage girls.


I tightened the perfectly-made Windsor knot until it pressed the sharp, heavily-starched collar of my white shirt into my fleshy teenage neck.

It was a scratchy wool tie. Mostly because my father was too cheap to spring for anything silk.

But the tie was mandatory, especially if I was going to work in his office at Brownell Electro, the nation's 3,829th leading distributor of electric motors and industrial wire cable.

Brownell Electro.
Grinding out a living since 1887.

With the garrote secured to my neck, my father led me like a puppy to the Suffern Shortline Bus Station where we climbed aboard the 6:32 AM to the Big Apple. Most teenagers don't know from 6:32 AM. Particularly those who had just discovered the joys of Acapulco Gold.

But then my life, and my summer, hardly resembled the life of most teenagers.

The working men, mostly in their late 30's and early 40's, though they walked slowly as if they were in their 60's, filed onto the bus, stored their briefcases, settled in to their seats and lit up their cigarettes. I pressed my head against the plexiglass window and tried to draw oxygen from the 1/2 inch wide vent that pumped in clean carbon monoxide from the nearby exhaust pipe.

It was already 97 degrees outside. And more humid than Fiji. The windows on the air conditioned Shortline began to sweat.

I was wet, half awake, suffocating and smelt like a carton of Lucky Strikes. And it wasn't even 7 o'clock yet.

At the office, just south of Chelsea in a shabby area of the city that hadn't been gentrified or Disneyfied, I sat in my wooden banker's chair. This was long before the era of Herman Miller. There was no height adjustments. No lumbar support. And no Kevlar backing to increase maximum ventilation and optimal comfort.

This chair had a gimp wheel. And one of the rear railings sported a small knotty oak protuberance. That protuberance was small at 7:30 in the morning. But by 3 o'clock it felt like Excalibur was impaled in my kidney.

Monday through Friday was the same routine.

Peggy, the unusually buxom chief of Accounts Receivable, came by at 7:45 and placed a boxful of checks on my desk. My job was to match each check with the Accounts Payable invoice and then post the amount to the ledger. I had to keep a running tab of all the incoming money. At the end of the day, the checks had to be deposited. So the tally, the invoices and the checks all had to balance.

They rarely did. It never phased my busty boss, Peggy. She knew all the tricks of bank reconciliation. If the amount was off by 9 cents, I had transposed some numbers. If the amount was off by a dollar or eleven dollars, I had forgotten to carry the one. And if the amount were off by anything more than $500, I had simply fucked up.

Then I'd be treated to a full-chested tantrum by my hot-tempered Puerto Rican supervisor.

"Pinche hijo de jeffe!"

The memory of Peggy, sloppy bank slips, torturous bus rides and hours spent waiting at the Port Authority Building came flooding back to me while driving home from the office and stumbling across Bachman Turner Overdrive's, "Taking Care of Business", a song that had vaulted to the top of the pop charts that August.

I took care of business that summer. And the following summer when I worked as a Pot Washer at Good Samaritan Hospital. And the subsequent summers, when I was a Line Cook, a Landscaper and a Forklift Driver in lovely Gardena, California, where the 110 meets the 405 and forms the 9th Gate of Hell.

Each of these character building experiences changed the vector of my life.

And each serve to remind me that since I became a copywriter in the ad industry, I haven't worked a day in my life.


Spotted on the dirty windshield of an SUV in the parking lot.

Not sure why the Can is capitalized. And I don't know what happened to the 'n' in doesn't. Nevertheless, the intent of the decal is clear.

And funny.

I've never taken to affixing decals or political bumper stickers to my car. Not because I don't possess strong feelings or leanings one way or another, I think you know I do.

It's more about not sharing those often politically incorrect opinions with the 450,000 commuters who travel on the 405 everyday. Many of them with baseball bats, hand guns and tiny brains on board.

I prefer the somewhat sanitized and rhetoric-based arena of social media.

Lately I've been going toe-to-toe with friends and coworkers who have an opposing -- meaning wrong -- view of the current crises in Gaza/Middle East.

Don't worry, I'm not going to open up that can of worms again. Frankly I'm tired of the issue and half-heartedly wish the Israelis would just cave in and give their sworn enemies everything they want. The world will thank them. Goodwill will be restored. And finally there will be peace.

Well you know, except for the raging Muslim insurgencies and real genocide going on in Eastern China, Chechnya, Iraq, Syria, Mali, Nigeria, Sudan, Ethiopia, Libya, Kashmir, Somalia, Egypt, etc. Basically anywhere you find a mosque, women in burlaps bags and people shouting obscenities about kafir .

Sometimes these discussions get heated and insults buried in subtext are hurled. My feelings were not hurt. And I hope I didn't hurt anybody else's. OK, truth be told, some I don't really care about.

And I think that former colleague, who is fond of sending me private drunken late night missives laced with blatant anti-semitic insults ("no wonder your people have been hounded for years"), knows exactly what I'm talking about.

So let's get back to the car decal.

It's safe to say the driver of the vehicle in question is a fellow misanthrope.

I love misanthropes. If only for their pragmatic, honest and unfiltered view of the world. We misanthropes should form a club and get together on Tuesday Nights for sandwiches, beer and frank discussion.

Oh wait, no, that would suck.

Shouldn't we be flying by now?

I know we were promised flying cars but I don't want to buy my flying machine from a guy in a polyester suit.

"So can I interest you in some protective undercoating for the wings? You don't want those rusting out at 12,000 feet above sea level."

I want something less cumbersome. Something I can keep in my closet, next to my "winter" coat and my mother's old Mah Jong set.

I want wings.

Da Vinci imagined it 500 years ago.



Why can't Elon Musk design and build it? Instead he's wasting his time on some bullet train that promises to speed passengers from Rancho Cucomonga to Fresno in less than 18 minutes.

Hardly a day goes by when we don't witness new, incredible quantum leaps in technology.

Candles that regenerate themselves .

Advancements in watermelon cutting .

iPhone apps to surreptitiously piss off the neighbor's vicious pit bulls.


Every day, from my office near LAX, I watch massive 747's, carrying hundreds of passengers and their heavy suitcases full of shoes they won't wear and books they won't read, lift off the ground and into the air.

I'm no mechanical engineer but how hard can it be to construct a nuclear powered, strap-on jet pack that would flutter a set of high speed wings, like those seen on a hummingbird, and finally emancipate us from the bondage of gravity?

Steve Jobs could have done it. And would have done it. But he was taken from us way too soon.

If only he had pursued more traditional medical care instead of listening to homeopathic hucksters or  anti-vaccination imbeciles and their ill-informed ilk, who would have us believe you can stave off polio by chomping on a head of romaine lettuce or sucking on some vanilla beans.

I blame you Jenny McCarthy.

It's your fault I don't have a flying machine to slip into. So now I have to walk to the minimart. Because we're out of mayonnaise.


"I like long walks, especially when they are taken by people who annoy me." -- Noel Coward.

Because it so aptly sums up my feelings, I've lifted this quote from the Facebook page of my good friend Jim, who is moving to NYC.

I had dinner with Jim and another good friend last week and the evening turned into quite the laugh fest. As I drove home with a belly full of rattlesnake sausage and wheat beer, I couldn't help thinking we should have done this more often.

Prior to that, my wife and I had dinner with another couple who we also hadn't seen in quite some time.

Again, I thought, we should do this more often.

As if all that socializing weren't enough (my daughters insist I'm a hermit), I also broke bread with some old advertising buddies that I hadn't seen in a good decade.

Not surprisingly, all these friends are writers. Also not surprising was the common topic of discussion, "What's next?" As well as the inevitable, "I'm going to be teaching."

Let's be clear, my mother didn't raise a fool.

I know that as a 44 year old freelance copywriter my days in the ad business are numbered.

Sure, I can whip up a manifesto faster than you can you say "an anthemic chest-beating puff piece meant to deceive the public and mask our contemptible desire for profits, profits and even more profits."

And yes I can have ten headlines written before the planner has read the entire brief to me verbatim.

And, if need be, I can even concoct some digital interactive brand engagement unit that involves hash tagging, uploading and instagramming who-knows-what, that will unlock the door that leads to the vault that houses the key to open the purse that reveals the coupon for 15% off your next purchase of steel-belted radial tires.

I can do all that. I don't think those skills disappear when you reach the age of 45, but I guess I'll find out next year.

What I do know is that I'm not cut out for teaching.

Teachers are underpaid.
And overworked.
And neither sounds appealing.

Moreover, apart from chess or 9th grade Algebra (which I have surprisingly retained), what would I teach? Copywriting?

Copywriting often comes from the ether. Synapses fire. Thoughts are born. And discarded. More thoughts, better thoughts evolve. Then words magically show up on the page. That's my process.

I know bad writing when I see it. And I see so much of it. But have no idea how to codify the process that leads to good copywriting.

Moreover, I have the patience of a flea.
A New York flea.
With ADD.

Finally, even if I could master the curriculum and reign in my temper, there's the distinct possibility that my classroom would be populated by eager young attractive women in their twenties.

I don't want to appear immodest but I can't imagine how they would be able to concentrate or glean anything of any value while being instructed by so much eye candy.

Last month saw the second highest number of visits to RoundSeventeen.

Over 10,000 page views.

I like to think it's because I'm becoming a better writer, but I suspect it's because we find ourselves in sour times and laughter is in such short supply.

Oh sure I may stumble across some insight about the ad business now and again. I may find a nugget of wisdom about fathering two teenage daughters. And I've even been known to ramble on about the current geo-political crisis in the Middle East, armed only with a handful of headlines and a superficial knowledge of the region's history.

The truth is I'm an intellectual lightweight.

I know it.
My wife knows it.
And the 10,000 folks who come here on a somewhat regular basis know it.

You're here for the funny.
And that's just what you're going to get.

Today, I'm moving slower than usual. My wife and daughters went on a little weekend getaway. Meaning I was left at home, free to get away with anything I wanted.

Within biblical limits of course.

On the first night of my stay-at-home mancation, I plowed through 1/2 a bottle of Noah's Mill Kentucky Bourbon. I found myself on the couch at 3:30 in the morning. With the TV blaring. It was on the History Channel, a show about Nazi Hunters and how the Mossad snuck Adolf Eichmann out of Argentina.

I had already seen it.
Six times.

And so today, weary, hungover and unable to muster up the energy for a good rant, I've reached back in the files and grabbed a Youtube video that I had written about in 2009 when nobody had even bothered to read this blog.

I liked it then.
Considering my listless nature, I like it even more now.


That's what I like

In the rereading of the last 100 or so postings it occurs to me that I spend a good deal of time writing about stuff I don't like.

So much so in fact that I don't like it.

Today, I have decided to turn the tables and commit some digital ink to things I do like.

I hope you won't be disappointed.

I like waking up on Sunday mornings and finding out my wife got out of bed early, drove over to the Bagel Factory in Beverlywood, for the only decent bagels in all of Southern California, and sprung for a small tub of fresh whitefish salad.

I like showing up at the pool for my noon workout and seeing all the regular swimmers are absent. Including the old lady who likes to jump in the water as if she were a dolphin.

In addition to empty pools, I like empty airports, empty bathrooms, and empty restaurants.

I like going to bed with my wife and both daughters, already sleeping, in the house.

I like drinking an ice cold beer on my porch when the sun is setting on a warm Friday evening.

I like having to tell recruiters I can't do their project because I'm already booked somewhere else.

I like getting on the elevator and having a pretty woman half my age throw me an unexpected smile.

I like misinterpreting that smile and thinking to myself, "oh, if I were single and 10 years younger." OK, 20 years younger. And 30 lbs. lighter.

I like getting the Final Jeopardy answer right when my wife, my daughters and the contestants don't.

I like walking into a new agency, being introduced to someone in the Creative Department and having them say, "Hey you're that cranky old dude who writes about all the shit he doesn't like."

A month ago, my wife and I as well as several friends, were camped in the foothills of the Eastern Sierra.

Our campsite was by no means glamorous. We were not glamping . Nor was it as cushy as some of the cabins that are still standing three miles to the west at the Manzanar Internment Site.

We had a tent, a bear box and pop up to shade us from the 100 degree heat. Oh and a cooler full of Coronas.

Naturally, as men are wont to do, especially when inebriated, we started telling tall tales.

My buddy, let's call him Tad because it's so much more humiliating than his real name, is the son of a Navy Seal. As such, he's no stranger to the outdoors or surviving in tough conditions, after all, he grew up in gritty San Diego.

Tad is also a former Boy Scout.
Not just any Boy Scout, he was an Eagle.

I was also a Boy Scout and reached the lofty rank of Second Class. Of course I didn't grow up in the soft suburbs of Southern California but in the significantly tougher environs of Northern New Jersey/Southern New York.

I think you can see where this is going.

A few more beers and perhaps a shot or two of Patron lead me to boldly assert that my Second Class Adirondack experience was equal to or exceeded his glampy SoCal Eagle standing.

What, other than copious amounts of alcohol, would warrant such a statement?

I told Tad of the time, when at the tender age of twelve, I was forced into a Winter Klondike. In the middle of January, on a barren patch of forested land off Rt. 59, we winter camped. I slept on 6 inches of snow, separated only by a 1/2 inch thick sleeping bag from my father's old Army days.

If I'm not mistaken, and mind you this was 32 years ago so I might be, the tent was crafted from old handkerchiefs sewn together with knots used by the local Iroquois Indians.

Not to be outdone, Tad said he would send me a picture of his sash.



The fact that I don't own a sash tells you all you need to know.

As you can see, Tad was quite accomplished.

He didn't have the same merit badges that we had on the East Coast: Rock Chewing, Possum Poking or Gasoline Fire Starting.

His scouting tokens are distinctly more erudite; including Mocassin-Making, Recycling and Water-skiing.

Waterskiing.

I rest my case.

The 30 second TV spot is dead.

Industry pundits are fond of making outrageous, click baiting statements like that. And in most cases their proclamations couldn't be further from the truth. But in the case of the declaration above, they are 50% correct.

Agencies are still filming spots for TV. And the Internet. And the mobile screen. But the 30 second time constraint is dead.

It's gone the way of the complimentary airline meal, the live customer service representative and the yearly raise and bonus.

Now spots run 1:27 or 2:43 or even 4:39. They're big and bloated. Not unlike the compensation packages for holding company CEO's.

It's this newfangled thing the kids are calling long-format video.

And like the cold matzo ball soup that sometimes emerges from the kitchen at the Roll 'N Rye Deli, I don't like it.

Not that the content isn't good, sometimes as in the case of this short , it is exceedingly good.

Though I will add it's relevance to Expedia is a bit tenuous. Don't get me wrong I enjoy watching outrageously attractive lesbians as much as the next fellow, I just don't know what their exotic lifestyle has to do with me renting a Nissan Altima and booking my next cheap flight to Tacoma?

My main objection, however, is the open endedness of it all.

When there's no time limit there's simply no degree of difficulty. In essence we've removed the skill and artistry needed to perform a high dive and turned it into belly flop.

We've taken the lid off the box.  And staying in the box, as my pal Ernie Schenck argues , is where the magic happens.

The box gives birth to craft.

When I first started in the business, Lee Clow would tell us to edit rough cuts as if they were 37 or 41 second spots. Get the story right, he would say. Make it clear. Go from Point A to Point B and make your case.

Then, when everything is in place, start shaving, or frame-fucking as we used to call it.

What happened? The 30 second finish line made us run faster, leaner and smarter. In other ancient ad industry vernacular, we learned how to "kill our babies", those precious magical moments that would make us smile but did little to serve the purpose of the spot.

I know my colleagues don't like to hear this, but we are employed in the advertising business. We're not, as Stefan Sagmeister put it "storytellers ."

We spend our client's money to make communication pieces that help our clients sell more of their shit, like diapers, compact trucks, or brown fizzy water.

Put another way, if you wanted to be a storyteller and have your vision committed to celluloid maybe you shouldn't have gone into advertising.

You should have pursued a career in film or TV, you know, industries with pure artistic integrity that have not been sullied by commerce.

You're going to eat that?

Have you seen Jon Favreau in Chef?

It's a good movie.
Not a great movie.

But it is thankfully devoid of gunfights, aliens and zombies. In other words, it's fit for your adults. I still find it hard to believe there are grown ups, folks I work with everyday, who are entertained by the notion of walking dead flesh eaters.

The movie Chef is about the eating of non-human flesh.

You could say it's the culmination of a foodie craze that has dominated our culture for the last 10 years.

From the food trucks to the insufferable Guy Fieri to the Top Chef game shows to an entire network devoted to nothing but food.

But I'm here to tell you all that farm-to-table glorification of the restaurant business is just that, glorification.

I started working at the Spring Valley Jack in the Box when I was 16 years old. The not-so-ambititious night manager liked to nap. So as soon as his shift started he ordered us to cook up 100 cheeseburgers, 100 tacos, 100 Jumbo Jacks and 100 whatever their fish sandwich was called at the time.

They sat for hours under the heating lamps. And when the stoners came through the drive through, they got what was handy. No special orders. No substitutions. No exceptions.

Three years later I found myself working the breakfast shift at the Carrier Circle Denny's in Syracuse, New York. They taught me how to crack eggs with one hand and flip omelets. You know when I wasn't in the back freezer with the local townie boys sucking the nitrous oxide out of the whipped cream cans.

After Syracuse, I arrived in Southern California. I landed a job at the Good Earth in Westwood. There were waitresses hotter than Sophia Vergara (Jon Favreau's ex in Chef) but they weren't dating the guys in the back of the house with avocado in their hair and grease stains on their shoes. Oh sure I had a college degree and could work a 750 degree wok, but I was no match for Dale, the surfing waiter with the feathered hair who appeared as bus passenger #3 in an episode of Starsky & Hutch.

Later, I got a job at the T.G.I.F. I thought I was going to be a line cook but the manager rarely saw college educated applicants and decided to give me a cushy white collar assignment. He handed me a clipboard and showed me to the attic where, in 98 degree heat, I had to do a physical count of all the non-food inventory: knives, cups and napkins.

The following day he handed me a ski parka and sent me into the deep freezer to tally up the T-bones. But it wasn't the sauna or the frostbite that hastened my departure, it was the 11 AM staff singing of the fight song.

Fuck you T.G.I.F. and fuck your fucking flair.

The point is this, you can gussy up the restaurant business all you want. But the cool Cuban music, the glamorous stars, the manufactured exuberance, should all be taken with a grain of salt. Like everything else the media gets its hands on.

The kitchen is a dirty, grimy, greasy place, more often than not crawling with German cockroaches and Chihuahua-sized rats. And it's often populated by sketchy alcoholics and former felons who got their tattoos at Folsom not at some hipster ink joint on Melrose Ave.

The food that comes out of the kitchen comes off their sweaty, well-callused hands and goes directly into your mouth. That is if it hasn't fallen on the floor first.

Because in the kitchens of your favorite bistro, cafe or trattoria, the 5 second rule is more likely the 50 second rule.

Bon Appetit.


I kicked up a bit of a kerfuffle recently when I wrote of my displeasure with Ernest Hemingway. I don't know how I ventured into Comparative Literature  as this is by no means my strong suit. Anymore than Organic Chemistry. Or Renaissance Art: The Age of Enlightenment.

I might have taken a Comp. Lit. course in college, some 20 years ago, but there's a good bet I was stoned and don't remember a thing.

If you read the comment section of that post you'll see I got into some playful back and forth with a Papaphile but was disappointed he didn't want to go another few volleys. If you know me at all, and I would think after 1100 posts you'd know a little, there's nothing I enjoy more than the opportunity to get behind the keyboard and start swinging.

But the commenter didn't oblige and I channeled that excess energy into some bench presses.

In any case, it reminded of an article I had read about famous authors taking potshots at other famous authors.

In today's sterilized world of political correctness people are hesitant to come out and say exactly what they are thinking. This is especially true in Hollywood, where one misspoken word can be the difference between a promising film career or becoming Steven Dorf.

But that type of vocational dishonesty didn't stop these very famous authors. As a service to RoundSeventeen readers, I've collected, I'm sorry, curated, some of my favorites.

We'll start with one of the most famous insults.

Truman Capote about Jack Kerouac:

"That's not writing, that's typing."

Here's what Vladimir Nabokov (Lolita) had to say about Hemingway:

"I read him for the first time in the early forties, something about bells, balls and bulls, I loathed it."

Mark Twain was quite clear on his opinion of Jane Austen:

"Every time I read Pride and Prejudice I want to dig her up and hit her over the skull with her own shin-bone."

Some of my favorite heated exchanges involve Groucho Marx and famed screenwriter S. J. Perelman. The two enjoyed a contentious, though hilarious, relationship.

Groucho to S.J. with regards to his new book:

"From the moment I picked up your new book to the moment I put it down, I convulsed with laughter. Some day, I intend reading it."

S.J., no slouch in the wit department, once said:

"I did two films with them, which in its way is perhaps my greatest distinction in life, because as anybody who ever worked on a film with the Marx Brothers said he would rather be chained to a galley oar and lashed at ten minute intervals until blood spurted from his frame than ever work for those sons of bitches again."

Decades later S.J. was visiting Groucho at his home in the hills and asked, "Do you mind if I smoke?" Groucho replied, "I don't care if you burn."

Discretion and good manners prevent me from throwing jabs at fellow copywriters suffice to say there is one hack in this town known for closing commercials with…

"See your local _______ dealer and lease a new _______ for just $349 a month."

That's weak.
Written by someone who should be cold-cocked on the head with their own femur bone.

I would have stated it much more eloquently.

"Lease a ______ for just $349 a month. See your local ______ dealer."

Much better. Right?

Of course you don't. This is the Chevy Volt before it was picked apart by middle managers, focus group housewives, and career-minded designers with little integrity and an uncanny willingness to compromise and please their org. chart superiors.

"Got it, boss. Take off edges, water it down and make it look more like the 1979 Chevy Vega. No problema."

Chances are you've seen today's Chevy Volt.
Hell, 38 people in America drive one.

You just can't remember it. That's because the committee that fought diligently to find the least common denominator and brought the Volt to fruition got everything they asked for: a bland, non-polarizing electric vehicle with all the pizzazz of an office stapler.

Alternatively, the current best selling electric vehicle is the unforgettable Tesla Model S. Did you see how I cleverly buried the AC pun into the wording?


Tesla can't keep these cars in stock.

In fact there's a waiting list to get one. They've succeeded beyond their dreams. And are preparing to unleash a Tesla Roadster and a more affordable sedan to the electric car buying public.

This, more than anything I can remember, demonstrates what is wrong with American business, and I'm looking at you Advertising Industry, today.

There are talented, imaginative, creative people who have the gonads to bring something unique and daring to the table.

And then there are committees, governed by mealy-mouthed sycophants whose inability to move the ball forward is surpassed only by an instinctual drive to cover their ass and crush the dreams and aspirations of fat, bald Jewish bloggers like myself.

I'm always amazed how many young people gain entry into the business of advertising.

They "graduate" from of the many ad warehouses throughout the country and walk right into one of the youngblood/intern/indentured servitude stints at one of the holding company ad agencies.

Voila, 6 months later, after knocking out a few banner ads and some viral content that received 413 views on Youtube, they're a copywriter.
Or an Art Director.
Or an ACD.

In my day, meaning 20 years ago, it didn't work like that.

I knocked on more doors, lugging a shitty portfolio of shitty work, than I care to remember. But I'll never forget the first bite.

A woman who was the Creative Director at Bernard Hodes Recruitment Advertising had an opening for a junior copywriter. She thought my book showed potential but wasn't convinced. She clipped one of the recruitment ads that had just come off the press, handed me the inky newspaper tearsheet and said come back on Monday with three alternative headlines.

And so I did.

I cleared my weekend docket of all the dates I had scheduled with leggy supermodels. Canceled the test drive I had arranged at the Porsche dealership. And I went to work.

On Monday I showed up in her office. Not with three alternative headlines but with ten. If memory serves, I even wrote the body copy for each ad. None of it was any good. All of it sounded something like…

Tomorrow's challenges, today.

or

Opportunity is staring you right in the face.

To be honest I don't think any of that mattered. They had an empty desk and they needed to fill it with someone who could churn, burn and grind it out. Oh and gladly take home $17, 000 a year.

That was 3,489,621 words ago.
Today I'm still grinding.

The words come easier now. And hopefully they pack more punch and feel more relevant. When they don't, they're often changed by clients, account managers or Junior Creative Directors, recent college graduates who, at 22 years old, are exactly half my age.

I think that's the definition of irony, but I'm not sure.


At the risk of opening up a can of worms, I'd like to weigh in on the tragedy in the Fertile Crescent.

Oh, not the Hamas-Israeli conflict. That can of worms that has already gone putrid from all the Facebook rhetoric.

Besides, as an unrepentant Zionist, or as one unfriended, unglued former colleague called me, a ZioNazi, I'm pretty sure you know where I stand on that issue.

What you might not know is that I cringe every time I hear or read about civilian deaths, or even military deaths, on either side of the warring parties.

I, and I guarantee you 99.9% of my fellow members of the tribe, are not driven by blood lust. And would like nothing more than to see a lasting peace between Palestinians and Israel. Not unlike the peace treaties Israel has willingly negotiated with Egypt. Or Jordan. Hamas, it seems, is not interested in peace.

However I am outraged.

And apparently I am alone on this, about what has transpired and continues to transpire just a few hundred miles north of Gaza.

There, Bashar Assad has exiled millions of Syrians and sent 150,000 of his fellow Muslim countrymen to their graves. By the way, that number is not some trumped up figure by the Jew-run media, that comes straight from Al-Jazeera .

That number includes 8,000, say it with me, EIGHT THOUSAND, innocent children.

I'm not going to stoop to some kind of grisly scoreboard, you can check the statistics on line.
But I will say this, the numbers are staggering.

The world's silence, even more so.

As if what were happening in Syria were not enough, the surging group of ISIS militants, hellbent on establishing an Apartheid Caliphate have been strafing across Iraq, forcing conversions, labeling apostates, murdering thousands and crucifying anyone who stands in the way of their personal Fourth Reich.

Where is the outrage?

Where are the flag-burning protests by the angry masses?

Where are the emergency sessions of the UN?

Where are the random attacks on Syrians, or people of Syrian descent, living in other countries?

Where are the vitriolic Facebook rants that so eloquently detail the senseless butchery of innocent people?

The moral hypocrisy is outrageous.

In the words of the apologists who cannot see that Hamas is Al Qeada is Taliban is Boko Haram is Hezbollah, you could say it's downright "disproportionate."

This is the time of year when many parents are bursting with pride.

Many, like us, have graduating high school seniors about to trek off to college. And naturally with the advent of Facebook, we wear those college acceptances like badges of honor.

It has even created its own faux pecking order.

"My son is going to Yale."

"Well my daughter is going to Bard."

"It's Santa Monica College for my son, but he's in the honors program."

I'm just as guilty of the rest and have boasted about Rachel's new journey to the University of Washington.

But here's the thing. It's all so meaningless.

In the real world, where you went to college or didn't go to college, matters not. In all my years of advertising, no one Creative Director has ever asked about Syracuse University, one of the premier schools in Communication. Not one.

But today, I am proud for different reason. Last Sunday, my 18 year old daughter fell. And in the vernacular of the agency where I am currently employed, she slew her Goliath.

You see, my daughter did what neither my wife and I could never imagine doing -- she fell from a plane. 10,000 feet high above Lake Elsinore in Eastern Riverside County.

She and her two good friends woke up on a Sunday morning, drove 90 minutes into the scorching Inland Empire, climbed aboard a flimsy prop plane, strapped themselves to some strapping young guys who relished the opportunity to introduce 3 pretty girls into the 2 mile high club, and then...jumped.

Maybe you're wondering if I'm embellishing or even making up the story. I'm not. And I have the proof.

In fact, I'll recreate the hair-raising experience using the novelty of the scroll function. I hope you'll be as relieved as I was when she finally returned to terra firma.


I hate Hemingway.

There, I said it.

I know that's heresy for a writer, correction copywriter, but try as I might I have not acquired the taste for Papa. He falls into the same category as brisket, scotch and Mad Men. I want to like them, but I don't.

Two weeks ago, I went on a camping trip. I brought with me, The Complete Short Stories of Ernest Hemingway (The Finca Vigia Edition.)

As I lay in the hammock, cooled by the babbling waters of the Onion Valley Creek, I dove head first into Ten Indians. 300 words in, zzzzzzzzz.

Same with The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber.

And The Big Two-Hearted River.

All impenetrable.
All boring.
All overrated, as far as I'm concerned.

Call me a lightweight. But if I want a healthy dose of obfuscation that requires tedious reading and re-reading, there are plenty of planning briefs I can get my hands on.

Fortunately, I didn't venture into the foothills of the Eastern Sierras unprepared. On the advice of my east coast doppleganger, George Tannenbaum, the most scholarly copywriter on the planet, I brought along Joseph Mitchell's Up in the Old Hotel.

Mitchell is everything Hemingway is not.
Accessible, entertaining and not overtly impressed with his own style.

He was a reporter for the New Yorker magazine and covered the hundreds of drinking establishments in lower Manhattan. There, he met and chronicled the lives of New York's most colorful characters.

Including Jane Barnell, a bearded lady, Captain Charles Eugene Cassell, owner/operator of Captain Charley's Private Museum for Intelligent People, and of course, the Bowery's legendary Joe Gould, Keeper of the World's Oral History.

By the end of the camping trip I felt like I had reconnected with Mother Nature while simultaneously connecting with the kind of unforgettable people who made New York City, New York City.

I'll never understand why high school and college English teachers are so smitten with Ernest Hemingway. Nor will I ever understand my families love of brisket, come the High Holidays.

That's what's great about being an adult and living in a free country. I don't have to subject myself to either.

Years ago I made the mistake of putting a friend's name in a blog posting hoping he would understand the tongue-in-cheek nature of the piece. It backfired. I publicly apologized. And swore never to name names in any RoundSeventeen blog posting.

Today I'm welching on that promise.

For two reasons.

First, I'm getting to a privileged point in my career where I just don't give a shit anymore.

And second, I've come to the painful conclusion that what I write matters to no one because frankly no one (apart from you faithful fourteen followers) is reading what I'm writing.

So what bullshit am I calling bullshit on?

Years ago, I was in charge of advertising for El Pollo Loco advertising. They had a minuscule budget and an ambitious media plan. Somehow we had figured a way to make 45 TV commercials on less than $250,000. Even by 2004 standards, that was quite a feat.

One day, the account people requested my attendance for a meeting with the folks from Cruz Kravetz, their Hispanic Marketing Agency. They were going to produce some El Pollo Loco commercials and thought it would be a good idea to get some guidance.

Wait, what?

The money I was told I didn't have for production was being used to fund the production of other commercials. Why, I naively thought, are we making two different sets of commercials?

Because, as the bullshit machine was slowly being cranked to 11, Hispanics eat El Pollo Loco's citrus-marinated, fire grilled chicken for completely different reasons than general market Caucasians or African Americans.

You see, I was under the mistaken impression that people from Mexico or El Salvador or Belize might enjoy EPL because they were hungry or appreciated fresh chicken or authentic salsa and tortillas.

But that, it turns out, is a narrow white man's view of the world devoid of any ethnographic insight.

As the Cruz Kravetz experts expertly pointed out, Hispanic people are all about, "family, passion and the family-oriented, passionate preparation of food products."

And then I was treated to a cavalcade of storyboards featuring large families. Being passionate. Eating chicken. And then, impossibly, being more passionate.

If it weren't so politically incorrect I would have told these professionals exactly what I thought of their fiesta de mierda.

They are by no means alone in their hoodwinking.

I've never had the pleasure of sitting in with an African-American speciality boutique, but I can spot their spots a mile away. Most often in car commercials. The copy, accompanied by needle-drop 'urban' music, invariably includes nonsense like "flow", "smooth" or "get your drive on."

Frankly if I were Hispanic or black I would be seriously offended by these cliched marketing approaches.

Then again, who am I to judge. I'm not a member of any minority. I'm just a white Jew. And the only advertising I respond to usually involves liquidation sales or 30% discounts.

Wait a minute…

I want to tell you about the first time I bedded down with a woman.

I should clarify that.

What I meant was a woman who wasn't under the influence of way too much tequila and too little in the manner of standards. In other words, a woman who had every intention of making me breakfast.

This was when I was first introduced to the world of excessive bedding accessories.

I remember walking into her room, heavily perfumed with patchouli (this was a long time ago), looking at the bed and thinking, "What the hell is all that?" More importantly, where was the mini-step ladder I would need to climb in.

There were shims and shams and ruffles and raffles. There were duvets. And it seemed the blankets had their own blankets.

There was even a headboard.
My parents had a headboard.

Until then, I had been sleeping on a twin mattress, laying on a wooden floor.

Even now, as a grown man, the world of beds and bedding is still quite alien.

Not long ago my wife convinced me to buy a new mattress. Guided by the "happy wife/happy life" principle, I reluctantly agreed to this newfangled memory foam.

The first night was a living hell of tossing and turning and muffled screaming about spending $3000 to sleep in a heated ©Playdoh mold.

The second night was even worse.

This went on for a week until I called the store manager. Having identified myself as a long-winded Yelper and a prodigious blogger (I might have told him I was lawyer too), he quickly offered to replace the foam mattress with a standard coil and spring model.

That bed was enormous. A California King they call it. The mattress is so wide it spans two different zip codes. My wife and I bring cellphones to bed so we can communicate with each other. The bed is so big we're thinking of subletting out a portion of it.

And now I find myself battling with bedding accessories of a different nature.

The extra, extra firm mattress is covered with a pillow top. I didn't want that feature but I refer you back to the time-honored maxim of "happy wife/happy life." The pillow top, it seems, needs to be covered by a mattress pad, for reasons which still remain unclear.

As if that were not enough, the mattress pad also requires a protective latex sheathing which serves to shield the mattress from the natural dead skin cells, oil and hair that come off a sleeping body.

There's so many layers between me and the mattress, I wake up in the morning feeling like I slept on a load of wrinkled laundry.

My wife assures me it's all necessary to preserve the integrity and value of the bed, though I'm not convinced there's a huge market for second hand mattresses. Particularly those previously slept on by swarthy Mediterraneans.

I told my wife, when it's time for the Dirt Nap, put me in a plain pine box. No sheets, no shams, no dust ruffles, no pads, no pad covers. Use that money to buy some good Noah's Mill Bourbon for the wake.

I'll sleep better.

This is a tale about Snuffy the Seal.

Two tales actually.

Last year, the Discovery Channel rolled out their annual event called Shark Week.

To promote Shark Week, they created a TV commercial in the guise of a news broadcast, that, as we in the industry like to say, went viral.





A great idea.
Executed quite well.
That's not something you usually hear about a standard splice and dice cable network promo.

The spot garnered a lot attention. Perhaps too much attention. Before long, parents groups, animal rights groups and people who are easily offended and prone to organize groups and petitions, were expressing their "outrage" at this wanton display of butchery.

Had the network brass at the Discovery Channel not possessed the backbone of the jellyfish, they would have told the molehill-makers to pound sand.

For one thing, it's a TV commercial!

For another, there is no Snuffy!

And for another other, it's a TV commercial!

But that's not the way it works in these absurdly sensitive times.

You want a free case of beer? Pretend you're an old spinster, with cats and an impressive collection of Hummel porcelain dolls, then write a letter to the Dos Equis Marketing Department asking why they haven't done a commercial about the Most Interesting Woman In the World?

Witness this year's promotional campaign for Shark Week and watch how they carefully put to rest all the harped-up concerns about Snuffy, the fictional seal that never got eaten in last year's fictional TV commercial.

They completely caved and did what is now referred to as a walk-back.





Snuffy lives!

Ok, now I'm offended.


You might recall my recent post about the imam who rationalized anal sex -- a definite no-no according to the laws of Mo-Mo -- as long as the anal activities were in the service of jihad.

More specifically, the imam stated, it was, "OK to indulge in ass play if the goal were to widen one's butt for the implantation of a bomb that would kill infidels."

One Roundseventeen reader took objection to the post. Indeed all my posts regarding religion, superstition and the Flying Spaghetti Monster.



Granted, this anonymous commenter was complimentary about the blog, but used the word "please" twice in one sentence so I can only imagine his or her displeasure with my choice of topics.

To wit, I may only offer my sincere apologies.

But I will not, and cannot, take the childish fairy tales that have such an inordinate impact on all our lives, off the table. Particularly, as in the case of the aforementioned bearded wise man, when it's so damn amusing.

The same can be said for the same irrational jackoffery -- God I love that word -- spewed by the misguided followers of Jesus. And in the interest of fair play, the fakakta wisdom often dispensed by the hirsute members of my own tribe.

Why the strident atheism, you may ask.

I happen to believe that religion, and its incumbent irrationality, are not the forces for good they pretend to be. And couldn't be happier to see more and more people getting off their knees and embracing the tenets of logic and science.

I don't have the wherewithal or the intellectual firepower of a Sam Harris or a Richard Dawkins, but I can add my voice to the chorus evangelizing the powers of critical thinking.

And so I will.

Over and above all that, it should be noted that I started this blog and maintained this blog so that I could enjoy a platform to write about anything I chose. In fact, the title Roundseventeen is a thumb in the face of advertising clients who have become so prescriptive and subjected the work to round after round of meaningless scrutiny, they have all but taken the writing out of copywriting.

Like it or not, the random ranting will continue.

About religion.
About advertising.
About dentistry.
About fatherhood.
About Things Jews Don't Do.
About meritocracy.
And about people who need to be thinned from the herd.

Stay tuned, next week I'm having a colonoscopy.


Don't know if you saw it, but last week the ground beneath the feet of the advertising industry shook.

There were trades, swaps, free agency deals and lots and lots of promotions. On the East Coast. And the West Coast.

Due to my own streak of self-imposed career stagnancy, I was not on the receiving end of any of it.

Then I had a moment of clarity that only someone who gets paid to bullshit people into buying things can possibly have.

Why not give myself a promotion?

Why not indeed.

Recently I passed a significant benchmark, 10 years as a successful, and I use that word with trepidation, freelancer. If you looked me up on linkedin.com you'd see my title is, and always has been, CEO and Chief Creative Officer. Those titles seem to suffice. That is until I got bit by the jealousy bug following last week's flurry of press releases.

And so it gives me great pleasure to announce that Rich Siegel has been named Chairman of Rich Siegel Worldwide.

Keep in mind, the last noteworthy spot I produced was more than two years ago, for the relaunch of the Honda Civic  - a fun campaign I did with the very talented Dana Markee.

And I haven't helped win new business or collect any awards at Cannes in ages.

In fact, for the last few years the level of my work has been journeymen, at best.

Let's not be naive. One glance at the org. chart of any of the big holding companies will prove this industry is no meritocracy.

Consequently, I don't see why the lack of any discernible achievement should stop me from being Chairman.

Hell, some ad agencies have two Chairmen, why shouldn't mine have at least one?

Furthermore, I don't see any reason why I shouldn't award myself a sweet Golden Parachute.

In the unlikely event that there's a dereliction of duties or a drop in revenue or some kind of substance abuse, I want to protect myself and my family.

And so I've just signed a contract that should my termination from Rich Siegel Worldwide become necessary, I will be given a significant lump sum of CA$H from the Rich Siegel Worldwide Corporation.

Of course that money will have to be extracted from my daughter's 529 College Savings account, but I'm sure she'll understand.

It's not personal, it's business.

Last week I received a text from home -- home being that suburban corridor of land surrounding the border of Northern New Jersey and Lower New York State, including Suffern, Mahwah, Spring Valley, Ramsey, Upper Saddle River and Nanuet.

The text reminded me to mark the day as the anniversary of the passing of our good friend, Jim.

That day brought on a flood of memories. And in thinking of Jim, one word always comes to mind -- Gusto.

It's a rare attribute.

You see it in some people, in glimpses or flashes. Or raucous Polish weddings. But Jim had gusto that simply would not quit. If there was a gathering of people and there was laughing and drinking and carousing and making the most of every breath of oxygen, Jim had to be there.

Unlike anyone I've ever met, Jim was always committed to being fully in the moment.

His voracious appetite for life could never be satisfied in the 'burbs. And explains why, on so many occasions, he'd urge us all to jump in his sea-foam green Dodge Dart, with the push-button transmission, and make the 45 minute trek into The City.

His father was a NYC cop and so, with his dad's special parking permit affixed to the dashboard, Manhattan was our own personal playground.

Did you know there's usually ample parking spaces next to all the fire hydrants?

The Big Apple in the late 70's had everything Suffern, NY did not. Hustle, bustle, grit, grime, an infinite cast of amazing characters, many of whom wrote and starred in their own personal performance theater right on the street.

And of course, there was Brew Burger.

For $6.95 you could get a cheeseburger, fries and an endless supply of Michelob beer. Jim didn't like Michelob beer, but he loved the word endless. Four of us would pile into a booth and wouldn't leave until the chairs were being put on top of the other tables or the Pakistani manager would throw us out…

"No, no, no, this no very good. You boys go now. I call the police."

"Ok, Haji, you call the midtown precinct and ask for Sgt. Murphy," Jim replied.

A City trip always included a stop in the Village. There, we'd make fun of hippies, or the remnants of hippies. Stroll around Washington Square. And laugh loud enough to wake up the people in Staten Island.

The nights would never end.

And we'd often find ourselves crossing the GW bridge guided by the stinging rays of the morning sun. Back on home turf, Jim would often 'Shanghai' us to the Stateline Diner. Or Don Len's on Route 59.  Not because any of us were starving for breakfast but because that's how much he enjoyed the camaraderie of his friends.

Because he wanted to bust balls.
Flirt with waitresses.
Bellow with laughter, until every fiber of his 6'3" 230 lbs. body convulsed with joy.
He wanted -- as my wife would say -- to be out among them.

Three of us commiserated last week and spoke of how much we missed Big Jim. But it's safe to say he misses us more.

Jim had Gusto.

Enough to last two lifetimes.
Sadly, he packed it into 26 years of one.

Not that there's anything wrong with that, ok, there's something wrong with that.

A few years ago, a minister representing Hamas, the friendly neighbors lobbing random rockets at civilian targets in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem, famously said, "We desire death more than you desire life."

A not-so-shocking statement considering that in the Arab/Muslim world the notion of death is so closely tied to the notion of endless sexual escapades with 72 black-eyed virgins.

I personally don't see the attraction to women with black eyes, but then there is so much about that culture I do not understand.

However, as a student of the Middle East and an unabashed Zionist, I am quite familiar with the barbarous nature of the more fanatic followers of the Quran. With the crucifixions in Syria and the mass murder now taking place in Iraq, I thought nothing could surprise me.

But I was wrong.

I'm going to share a video with you.

Afterwords, I could make some pointed commentary or some cheap jokes, but as I have friends and relatives across the full spectrum of human sexuality I will wisely refrain. Suffice to say, this is why we can't have peace in the Middle East.

All you need to know is the video pertains to the following Fatwa, a religious edicts set forth by holy Islamic clergymen:

Homosexuality may be forbidden in Islam, but Muslim brothers may engage in sodomy if the goal is too stretch the anus opening so that bomb materials can be inserted for martyrdom operations.



Footnote to the editors at The Onion, the bar has officially been raised.


I know there's uneasiness in the Ukraine.

I know rebel Muslims are killing other Muslims in order to establish an all-Muslim planet.

And I know there's global warming going on because it's hot at my house and my wife and kids are yammering at me to install air conditioning.

But no one, and I mean no one, is changing this world more than the people at Twitter.

Last week, the forward thinking folks who gave us the Guttenberg-busting 140-character messaging platform announced a new metric for their Vines, the 6 second videos that re-aligned our solar system -- Loop Counts.

Wired Magazine wrote an entire article explaining the Loop Counts which you can read here .

I'm not going to lie and tell you I understand the mechanics of metrics, but the author of the article summed up it nicely with…

"It's a smart way to get you thinking about what is different about the platform. It reminds you why you're here."

You know, in case you forgot.

Of course if you want to gauge the true far-reaching impact that Loop Counts will have on our industry and how Loop Counts will change the way we eat, sleep and breath, you have to hear it from the soothsayers who can't wait to get their hands on this magic formula, the Social Media Director/Senior Content Strategists of this world.


I've conveniently blocked out the name of this fast-rising middle manager because I don't want him, or her, to be deluged by headhunters, which might get in his, or her, way of important Loop Counting.

You'd think one revolutionary announcement from the Twitterverse would be plenty, but you'd be wrong.

Resourceful Roundseventeen reporters have it on good word that we will soon see Twig™-- a game changing video platform delivered in 18 seconds.

Meatier than a Vine, yet shorter than a standard 30 second spot, the new 18-second Twig™promises to spawn three times as much buzz.

Three times as much wallop.

And of course, three times as much sales as the now popular, Vine.

Three Times!!!

Between your Haight-Ashbury free lovers, your Humboldt County alternative "medicine" growers and your West Hollywood Let's-Make-Paper-Mache-Penises-And-Throw-A-Paraders, California may be the bluest, most progressive, gluten-free states in the union.

But don't tell that to the sun-baked, leather-skinned, jerky-chewers who populate the towns up and down Route 395, a two lane sticky asphalt highway that runs the length of the state on the eastern side of the Sierras.

Here in the Owen's Valley, nature's very own 100,000 square mile solar panel, you'll find the same kind of backwards thinking that would rival the newly-formed Caliphate in Syria/Iraq.

Am I over-generalizing?
Of course, I am.

But the similarities can hardly be dismissed.

First, there's this unholy fascination with God. And the curious notion that somehow these folks have been blessed by the Almighty to live on a land with less than 4 inches of annual rainfall.

The burka-clad women and mustachioed men of the Middle East call out to Allah 5 times a day.

But in towns like Olancha, Big Pine and Randsburg, Jesus is broadcasting 24/7/365 on every AM/FM station. And don't expect any escape with the Scan button, he's commandeered every preset.

Jesus even has his own network on XM Satellite, Savior 77. Commercial-free, just like Howard Stern.

Of course you can't spread the Lord's message of love, wisdom and brotherhood without guns. And military munition.

For every Kalashnikov and RPG in the service of the Holy Quran, there are tenfold AR-15's and Glock 9's available for purchase at gun stores conveniently located every 10 miles, from Mojave to the Mono Basin.

Most are next door to a Subway Sandwich shop. For easy lock and carbo-loading.

Besides guns and God, are there any other shared attributes between the Caliphate on the Tigres River and the one along the California Aquaduct?

Well, there's patriarchal misogyny, raging intolerance, overzealous nationalism, blind faith, anti-intellectualism, a seemingly genetic disposition towards violence, poor dental hygiene and an irrational willingness to blame all of life's problems on…wait for it...the Jews.

Maybe water and oil are not our most precious resource.

Maybe it's sunscreen.


It may seem odd that a few days after our American Independence Day, a day I spent in Independence, CA, I write of Jolly Ole England, but I am nothing if not contrarian.

Several days ago, famous Brit, Sir John Hegarty, founder of BBH, gave a wide ranging interview on the state of advertising. Broken. Ill-informed. And completely out of touch with the times. In short, he likened it to the state of Mississippi.

Hegarty has gravitas.

And though I, and other Yankee bloggers, have been saying the same things for years, when Hegarty speaks people listen. It might have something to do with his immense body of work. Or, perhaps more likely, it has more to do with his erudite annunciation and his $300 shirts.

Hegarty bemoans the bean counting.

"Too many people leading our industry are accountants, and I think for a creative industry that’s a tragedy."

   Hegarty ponders the demise of TV.

   “I think the industry has lost faith in TV. I think it has lost faith in the big, bold idea. I think it has lost its courage and I’m deeply upset by that."

   And finally, Hegarty takes his shot against the onslaught of digital.

     "In our industry we’ve become obsessed with technology, in doing so, it has lost faith a little bit in the value of that big idea."

  Of course when I make similar statements they are clearly with a more regional dialect. And with far less eloquence.

   "I got your social media, right here."

   Last week, while on vacation, if you call sleeping on the ground, slathering on bug spray and storing food in a  bear box a vacation, I reposted some old stories from the archive. Including one on the nature of digital advertising. Imagine my surprise to come home and find out that piece racked up thousands of hits.

    Turns out, Dave Trott, another Brit, who I will affectionately refer to as the poor man's John Hegarty, only because he hasn't been knighted, yet, tweeted that story and sent it all over the Motherland, Great Britain.

    One tweet led to a retweet (something you losers here in the Colonies never do) and suddenly I've got new followers and a band of Brits spreading the good Roundseventeen word across the European continent.

    If you haven't read Dave's blog, you should. He's a remarkable writer and tells some terrific stories. And I'm not just saying that so that he'll continue to evangelize on my behalf. Oh who am I kidding, of course I am.

    More importantly however, I get to claim, at least on one    occasion, that I got the Trott's…

   …Seal of Approval.

   I've been wanting to use that joke for the longest time. Oh it's good to be back.

   I'll be here all week.


I miss the One Off.

The One Off was a singular great idea/great execution/great ad that stood alone in the limelight. It was unencumbered by contrived brand extensions. Unfettered by social media integration. And unburdened by the false prophecy of 360 degree synergy.

Look through the awards annuals of days gone by and you'll find page after page of great One Offs.

But the One Off is on the endangered species list. Today, Creative Directors will trash an idea simply because it is a One Off. As if that were some kind of pejorative.

Or worse, like some crazed Joe Pesci character, they'll stick a great idea in a table vice and squeeze it until it yields banners, mobile apps and "something fun we can do on InstaGram."

It's all such nonsense. Sometimes a great spot is just a great spot. And that should be more than enough.

Ask the man, the woman, or the CMO on the street which brand does the best job marketing itself and you will no doubt hear, Apple. This is more than a little ironic since Apple is a company that defines the cutting edge of digital technology. Yet they refuse to play in the digital marketing arena.

When it comes to advertising they don't subscribe to the flavor of the day. They are iconoclasts. And refreshingly old school.

Steve Jobs, and his successor Tim Cook, never bought into the Java-scripted, HTML, inflective paradigm shifting mumbo jumbo that is being peddled in executive boardrooms across America. They know snake oil when they smell it.

But what if the greatest One Off of all time, Apple's original Super Bowl spot , were in the hands of folks who didn't know how to leave well enough alone?

I suspect Tank Top Girl would have her own Facebook page. We'd know where she buys her athletic shorts. The workout routine that produced such stunning triceps. And the high protein, gluten free cereal she eats every morning before her daily assault on convention.

Similarly, the Big Brother character would have his own Twitter feed. And a team of 20-something social media writers would be working night and day, wearing out the dictionary and the Thesaurus to come up with authentic sounding Orwellian doublespeak.

And of course there would be a website where users could enter their own target of disdain and, through the magic of algorithms and UX design, see their ex-bosses, old girlfriends, and former landlords, destroyed by a rebellious airborne sledgehammer of destruction.

Oh the hours of meaningful brand engagement that would produce. Yeah, right.

Thankfully, 1984 was not like 2012.


It's Tuesday morning and I'm feeling nostalgic. I'm heading into the office and somehow wishing I weren't. Not that I'm not grateful for the gig, I am. But I remember a time when Tuesday mornings and the office were mutually exclusive.

I was working as Creative Director at Chiat/Day. My partner and I were left alone to run the ABC account the way we saw it. We never had to have the work cleared by a planner. Or an account director. Or even someone higher up on the creative food chain.

We had shoestring budgets, run and gun schedules and complete autonomy. We also had the trust of a client who would produce the work they found funny and kill the work they didn't find funny. It was that simple.

That type of creative freedom was rare, so we took advantage of it.

On Tuesday mornings we would schedule golf outings at the Malibu Country Club. We'd hit the links
at 8 AM and be back in the office after lunch. No one seemed to notice and no one seemed to care.

The foursome included myself, John Shirley, Jerry Gentile and Mark Fenske. Not the best quartet of golfers by any means. (OK, Gentile, as his name would indicate, was pretty good.) But what we lacked in golfing acuity we more than made up for in laughs. By the time the round was over, my shoulders and neck were always aching from the non-stop howling.

Best of all, the design of Malibu Country Club lent itself to our tomfoolery. The course is built into the hills of the Santa Monica mountains. The fairways are lined with desert scrub and thick, high chaparral. Out of bounds is truly out of bounds, with an abundance of scorpions and rattlesnakes. That never stopped Jerry from galloping into the brush and collecting as many lost balls as possible.

And those found balls were put to good use.

The 18th hole at Malibu sits atop a high hill. There is about 300 feet of elevation between the tee box and the green, some 400 yards away. So with the carts parked on the path, we all reached for our drivers. Somebody, I don't remember who, had a USGA non-approved driver made in Korea. The head of the golf club was about 1000 cc's and it looked like a small toaster oven.

And with that we tee'd off. Not aiming for the green. Or even the fairway. Not giving a damn about hooking or slicing. We simply gripped it and ripped it. Taking advantage of our Mt. Olympus-like setting and hitting those rescued balls as hard and as far as we possibly could.

We all looked forward to Fenske's monster swings. Mark stands about 6'3" and at the time weighed in about 250 lbs. A moose of a man, with the strength to match. His form was nowhere near perfect. And he possessed all the athletic grace of a drunken ice fisherman. But damn that boy could smack the dimples off a Titleist.

Once he drove the ball 350 yards, 150 of them were straight.

The ball landed on the green of the 7th hole.
The 7th hole of nearby Sherwood Country Club.

Insane Orthodox Jews hang floor-to-ceiling curtains to separate men from the women in synagogue.

Christians have an unholy preoccupation with virginity and have violated the principles of logic with something called 'immaculate conception.'

But when it comes to sheer lunacy and Neanderthal attitudes towards the female of the species, no one can hold a locked-and-loaded RPG to the Muslims.

Last week, an unnamed cleric in Egypt issued a fatwa banning women from touching bananas and cucumbers . In fact, the ban went on to include all penis-shaped foods including carrots, zucchinis and hot dogs. Of course those would be beef hot dogs, as Muslims and Jews already ban hot dogs made from pork, probably because that would lead women to have unclean thoughts about porking.

The forward-thinking sheik also stated that if women wish to eat these tubular foods, a third party male (obviously not a homosexual male because he too would be unable to curb his cravings for cock) should cut the phallicly- shaped food into smaller, non-sexual pieces.

He further went on to explain, though not reported in the paper, that it was no coincidence that American women (sinners), in particular widows, flock to Florida a state that is clearly shaped like a turgid penis and is indeed a geographic peninsula, which in itself sounds like penis.

The fatwa caused immediate turmoil throughout the Middle East.

At the Sizzler in Medina, Saudi Arabia, 8-year old Dahab Ahlam was steered away from the XXX-rated salad bar and later told by her mother she could not have a banana split sundae for dessert. She was forced to settle for the rather flaccid rice pudding. And then defying logic, as only children and deeply religious people can, she vowed, "this is another great injustice which can only be redeemed by the massive spilling of infidel blood. Allah Akbar."

Pleased with her daughter's violent indignant reaction and her pledge to take up violent jihad, Dahab's mother topped the little girl's rice pudding with Reese's Pieces. And all was right with the world. Temporarily.


If you read roundseventeen with any regularity, and frankly I don't know why anyone other than my wife would, you know that at this time of the year we head up to Independence, CA, for our yearly camping trip.

This year, our twelfth, will be different.

My youngest daughter is away at Jew camp. And my oldest daughter has a summer job and will be guarding the homestead with our dog Nellie.

In the spirit of not divulging too much security information, my brother has also agreed to pop in the house at several unscheduled times. Lest any of you ne'er-do-wells have any thoughts of coming to Culver City and relieving me of my prized 50 inch flatscreen TV or my 21-speed Cinelli racing bike.

My brother's wrists are as thick as a #10 can of Ketchup, so I don't recommend tangling with him.

So where does that leave you, the regular roundseventeen reader?

Probably with a much needed respite from my finely fermented venom, my Luddite geo-political ramblings, and my personal oversharing.

But I'm not about to leave you in the lurch.

That's not how I built the 23,981,763rd most popular blog in America with a daily readership in the high teens, and spiking in the low twenties when linked via AgencySpy or Huffington Post.

I've scoured the archives and reposted pieces that I thought were deserving of a second look. I'm often surprised on this end about which posts catch fire and which ones don't.

I hope you will enjoy these while I'm high in the Sierras cavorting with the local meth-heads and scrounging for moss that will answer many unmentionable hygiene needs.

We will return to our regularly scheduled blogging on July 7th.

As some of you might know I've been experiencing some dental trauma over the course of the last two months.

Back in April, the bridge that had been in my mouth for close to thirty years, fell apart. The plan was to replace it with state of the art dental implants that would have cost almost as much as a year's worth of college tuition. But, as it turns out, a 3D X-Ray of my entire skull made that prospect impossible.

Seems I have a rather large vein that runs the length of my upper jaw. That vein obstructs the bony marrow for the implant base. It would be like posting caissons in quicksand.

Consequently, I'm back to Plan B, which is replacing the old bridge with a new one. Until that new bridge is built, in a laboratory somewhere in the South Bay, I have been wearing a temporary.

I use the word 'wearing' purposefully. In order to denote its flimsy day-to-day nature.

You see while the temporary bridge felt sturdy and up to the task, last week while swimming, the bridge snapped in two. I had no choice but to hightail it over to the nearest Pharmacy to purchase a tube of Fixodent.

Nothing will age a 44-year old man faster than stepping up to the cashier at a CVS with a tube of Fixodent. Good thing I don't suffer from incontinence and require a box of Depends.

Lately I've been eating only very soft foods. Last week, we were at The Counter and I'm here to tell you the bacon cheeseburger doesn't taste half as good when it's pureed and sipped through a straw.

The Fixodent hasn't helped much. The two-piece broken bridge has been falling out repeatedly and rolling around in my mouth like a pair of sticky Las Vegas dice from a dirty craps table.

I'm sure you feel as I do that the new permanent bridge cannot go in fast enough.

That way we can stop talking about my teeth.
And get back to the biting essays on advertising.

Did you see what I did there?


One of the tropes large ad agencies like to trot out to their global clients is their "vast international host of creative resources and assets."

This, along with their mastery of social media and emerging digital platforms, is simply laughable.

Served up from the same industrial-sized vat of bullshit that gave birth to the open office plan and its resultant "increased collaboration and architecturally-induced sparking of new ideas and next generation thinking."

Zzzzzzzzz.

Please.

Years ago, when I worked at Chiat/Day, my partner and I were often sent to the NY office to help out on pitches and assignments. We often flew business class. We often stayed at the SoHo Grand. And we often abused the hell out of our per diems.

"I'll have a double shot of your 18-year old single malt. And for dinner, I'd like your second most expensive steak stuffed inside your most expensive steak."

It was sweet.

But it wasn't very productive.

When we strolled into the office we were met by glares and enough territorial rage to fuel the #7 line all the way to Flushing.

The NY staffers didn't want us there. They didn't want our help. And they didn't want to hear stories about how cool it was to work alongside Lee Clow.

Now with the benefit of hindsight, I understand why.

Years later, I took a position with Y&R, where the perverted concept of inter-office collaboration was twisted beyond recognition.

When I was hired I was under the impression that we, the Irvine office, would be in charge of the Jaguar account. What I found out was, every ad, every idea, every campaign, was a jump ball. Not with other agencies. But with the Y&R office from London.

Every three months or so, a team of their whiskey-sodden wankers would pop across the pond and share with us their latest gems.

And instead of expressing their gratitude for bailing them out of World War II and saving the British Empire from a 1000-year Reich of soggy sauerkraut and secondhand schnitzel, these dentally-challenged chaps took a massive dump on all our work. And they did it in that grating British voice that clearly justified the first shots at Lexington Concord.

If memory serves I believe Ian or Nigel or Winthorpe referred to our ideas as "groaners."

Surely you think I'm exaggerating and telling this story for self-serving purposes. But thanks to Google search I was able to locate an image that will give you an idea of the kind of work generated by Y&R's "vast international host of creative resources and assets."


That's right.

The lads from London, or as I liked to call them, the Hacks from Hounslow, wanted to do an entire campaign of Jaguars painted like Jaguars.

To their credit they hadn't proposed illustrating the Jaguar face on the bonnet. You know, because they wanted to keep it classy.

Next time you hear the words global and collaboration, do yourself a favor, walk in the other direction.


I have the good fortune of living about a mile and half away from the tortuous stairs at the Baldwin Park Scenic Overlook. These stairs were made famous by the Apple ad that can be seen here .

I love these stairs, not only for the aerobic workout, but for the quiet and solitude one can find at the top and on the back trails on the way down.

The other day I grabbed a water bottle and set out for the Overlook.

About 1/4 mile into my walk I noticed my shorts were slipping. I like to think it's because I'm shedding a few pounds but it's more than likely that I bought the wrong shorts.

I knew the rest of the walk wouldn't go well if I didn't find a way to hitch up my pants. So I did what any fan of shows like Survivorman, Life Below Zero, and Naked and Afraid, would do, I turned to Mother Nature.

I spotted a bush covered in solanum jasminoides, white potato vine, which is indigenous to California.

I pinched off a couple of yards of vine and made me way to an alcove in front of one of the industrial businesses along Jefferson Blvd. I carefully pruned the vine of it leaves and vinelets and then started threading it through the loops in my shorts.

I wasn't going for that whole "connected to the land" feeling, I just didn't want my thighs to chafe.

As I was fashioning the belt, two older African American woman emerged from the building.

My do-it-yourself habberdashering caught their immediate attention. They didn't avert their eyes. And they didn't hide their misguided assumptions.

(please excuse the politically incorrect intonations, I believe it makes the story funnier)

"Letitia was telling me she came out of her office in Santa Monica and there was some bum sleeping in the doorway."

"What she do?"

"She told him, 'you can't be sleeping here.'"

"Oh gurrrrrl."

"Then she be like on the phone making like she be calling the po-po."

"That man best be moving."

"Oh he did. He move fast."

There was no mistaking it.
They had mistaken me for a homeless man.

I could have pointed out my $120 Asics running shoes. Or the expensive gold wedding ring. Or the designer water bottle my wife is fond of purchasing. Or I could have taken out my iPhone and shown them a picture of the obscenely overpriced home owned by this homeless man. And the bank.

But I decided against all that and let them go on their way with their preconceptions.

And I went on my way. Thanks to my non-sagging shorts, I reached the top of the stairs in record time.

When I returned home, my wife took one look at me, now sweaty and even more disheveled, she spotted my potato vine belt and said…

"Look at you. You look like a homeless person."


If you happen to be employed in advertising you know today is the Worst. Day. Ever.

Why?

Because today the adverati return from Cannes. Most will come home empty-handed, but full of glory-hungry piss and vinegar. They watched as the Brazilians and Europeans carted off a suitcase packed with lions and vowed to return next year with work that would knock your $200 Fedora off.

And so today, the creatives who didn't go to France to lounge on a yacht, sip rose and pontificate about the holistic integration of Instagram, Twitter, and wearable anklet computers, the ones who banged out the sales events, the statement stuffers and the e-mail blasts that keep the lights on, will get an earful.

You know what I'm talking about: The Pep Talks.

Years ago we would have been herded into the conference room. But now, since we all sit at the community table or the SuperDesk, the flagellation…er, motivational speeches can be administered out in the open.

"We have to be smarter."

"We have to work harder."

"We have to generate ideas faster."

"We have to create work that can stand up to the myopic scrutiny of MBAs and have people in focus groups exclaiming, 'that spot has to be made.'"

Stop me if you've heard this before. Chances are you have. And you'll hear it again next year. Because the powers that be in advertising, the ones who graced you with a 2 inch high Eiffel Tower souvenir from their annual French boondoggle, are averse to change.

The only change they're interested in is an upgraded suite at the InterContinental Carlton in 2015.

But I'm an outsider now.
And have no vested interest in vesting. Or ladder climbing.
And, perhaps blindly, no fear of retribution.

So here's my humble but deadly-accurate prescription, for agencies that want to win awards at Cannes.

1.) Pink Slip The Planners -- You show me a creative team that can't figure out a distinctive market insight and I'll show you a team that doesn't deserve a Cannes Lion. Or a job for that matter.

2.) Put Creatives in Charge -- The final say on what goes out the door and sold to the client goes to a Creative Director.  Not a CEO, a CMO, or a CFO. Or worse, a committee of all the aforementioned.

3.) Never say the words Social and Media in the same sentence -- Banners, tweets, mobile apps, Facebook updates, page takeovers, kickstarters, Tumblrs and Foursquare friend finders have never sold a single widget, dohickey or whatchamacallit. They never will. Stop. Just stop.

4.) Make with the Funny -- With the exception of Barton Graf and the agency where I am currently employed, there are few folks doing work that's genuinely funny. Not wink worthy. Or smile inducing. People want work that makes them laugh. Where are the Evil Beavers?

4a.) Hire a crusty Old Time Writer -- In the 10 years I've been freelancing I haven't been to one agency that couldn't benefit from an old timey writing guy. Or gal. Who knows how to put one word in front of another and bring back the art of persuasion.

5.) Finally, Burn the Community Table -- Writers and art directors need offices. Real offices. Give them the ones formerly occupied by the Planners.


One of the first lessons you are taught in the martial arts is the concept of Environmental Awareness.

You are less likely to be attacked if you know where you are.
Who you are with.
And your position within your surroundings.

This concept is lost on imbeciles who insist on texting while cruising down the 405.

Environmental awareness is also lost on my next door neighbor, owner of two vicious pitbulls and two monster pick up trucks that for some reason need to be washed every three days, despite California’s severe drought.

Last weekend, for instance, he thought it would be a good idea to go to the garage at 2:30 AM, fire up his noisy Kawasaki racing bike and open up the throttle until the tires kicked off a noxious white cloud of smoke that would cover Pacoima.

Asswipe.

The lack of environmental awareness knows no class lines.   Earlier this week I was at the very tony Bristol Farms, where tuna fish salad is commonly referred to as albacore pate.

I had just finished swimming and was rushing to get back to the office. Because I like to think of myself as conscientious and punctual.

A young woman was at the register before me. In the most polite terms, she was a Chatty Kathy. She started squawking away with the cashier.

"Do you know where Brian is? You see I'm going to a party for my friend who just graduated from LMU Law School and I wanted to buy her a bottle of good champagne. I know she doesn't like sweet wine, but I didn't want get something too dry. I don't know much about champagne and I just picked a bottle because it has a pretty label. I wish Brian, the assistant manager were here."

"I think today is Brian's day off," replied the cashier.

"Oh, I was really hoping to get his expertise."

"Like I said, today is his day off."

I had just come out of the pool and was enjoying an endorphin high. Plus, some work had been approved earlier that morning and the stock market was trending up, so I was more than willing to indulge her inquiry. Which went on for quite some time.

Then the cashier spotted the grocery manager who was walking behind me.

"Oh Lou. Maybe you can help this young lady, "said the cashier.

"Hi, I'm going to a party for my friend who just graduated from LMU Law School and I wanted to buy her a bottle of good champagne. I know she doesn't like sweet wine, but I didn't want get something too dry. I don't know much about champagne and I just picked a bottle because it has a pretty label. I was hoping Brian were here..."

I kid you not.

She launched into the entire long winded story once again.

I was trapped in vortex of cheap champagne chitter chatter.

I shot her an unmistakable look.

A look that said in no uncertain terms you have no right to waste my time, nor the time of the people behind us in line. Go on Google, do your research, hunt down Brian while he's fishing at Lake Cachuma, but don't hold up everybody up, on their lunch hour, because you couldn't track down the supermarket sommelier.

She sensed my rising pulse and grudgingly offered me to let me go in front of her.

And then when I thought she couldn't do anything to make herself more odious, she placed her hand on my elbow and said in a very soft passive aggressive tone…

"I hope the rest of your day goes better."

And I hope your friend pokes your eye out with the cork.

If you've come to this post expecting a glowing nostalgic romp about this cult movie classic of the 70's I'm afraid you're going to be disappointed.

Truth is, I've never seen this movie. And frankly never will.

Let's travel back in time. The year was…oh, that's not important. I had just got out of my junior year in college. I knew I'd be working for the summer, I just didn't know where.

Syracuse or Suffern? Not the juiciest options, I'll grant you.

So I packed a duffel bag, grabbed my last $100 and bought a one way ticket to Los Angeles. Hell, they had restaurants out there, I could sling hash in the warm California sun.

And so I got myself a room as a boarder at one of the local fraternity houses on the campus of UCLA.

It was cheap. It was clean, er somewhat clean, and it was blocks away from Westwood which was teeming with blond waitresses hoping to be models/actors. There was nightlife. There was hustle. There was bustle. Did I mention the blond waitresses?

A week later, my buddies Jim and Bob, who also had no particular plans for the summer moved into the frat room.

Within days, we each secured jobs, a reliable weed connection and the largest room in the frat house overlooking Gayley Ave. We were living like kings. As much as three dumb 21 year old kids can live like kings. We still had to share the broken toilet down the hallway with everyone in the house. But in our minds, we were masters of our own domain.

And then they moved in.

A white trash couple from the Florida Panhandle, a phrase dripping with redundancy. They drove up in a VW van that had seen better days. The frat house manager assigned them to our room, which was designated to sleep five. We assigned them to the top bunk of a rickety ass bed that wouldn't survive a 4.3 earthquake.

We took an immediate disliking to Corey and Lori from Florida. Mostly because they were into Cosplay before Cosplay was even a thing.

Every Saturday night they would dress up like two of the characters from the Rocky Horror Picture Show. Jim once made the mistake of asking them about the film. Their explanation included singing and dancing.

Which only made us dislike them more.

And every Saturday night they would return from the Rocky Horror Picture midnight showing at 3 or 4 in the morning. You might think that modesty would have prevented them from engaging in any amorous activities with three obnoxious guys from Northern New Jersey in the room.

But folks who put on stage makeup and cross-dress are not big on modesty.

So while they did the Tallahassee Tassle, we did what only seemed natural, we'd turn on the lights, throw on some shorts and fire up the bong. I'm sure we razzed Corey about his less-than-stellar lovemaking.

Those were heady times. And I don't think I've ever laughed harder than my first summer in LA. Maybe that's why I came back after graduating college.

My daughters are approaching that liberating age. I hope they have at least half as much fun as I did. I want them them to do odd things, explore unusual places, and get outside of their comfort zone.

Just not with a guy from Tallahassee who dresses like Riff Raff

So you want to hang a shingle and start an ad agency of your own?

Who can blame you? All that glamour. All that creativity. All those eager visionary clients yearning to leverage this new media landscape and change the world with their longer-lasting ink cartridges, their artisinal mayonnaise and their Venetian blind chord detanglers.

These are exciting times indeed.

And as my friend Mark Fenske opines, there's never been a better time to open your shop. The light is green .  He's a professor of advertising so he knows what he's talking about.

  You may even have the space picked out to hatch your grand scheme. Maybe a tool shed or a converted garage.

You're all set right? Well not exactly.

God may be in the details, but success is in the preparation.

Let's face it, you just can't go out there and start making ads for people and then charge them up the ying yang for ideas that could easily be churned out by a bunch of clever 5th graders. Well…you could. But let's not diss all those game-changing digital boutiques out there.

The point is, if you're going to start an agency it's good to have a library of knowledge at your disposal. Manuals that will help you navigate the unchartered and sometimes unpaid waters that lie ahead.

You've come to the right place:





There you have it.

With any luck your fledging agency will be acquired by a big holding company and you'll be jetting off to Cannes to rub shoulders, and over-inflated biceps, with this guy …


As some of you may have seen on linkedin.com, this week marks my 10th anniversary as a freelancer.

I’ve never held a job for any greater length of time.

Previous to that I did a 6-year stint at an agency but was unceremoniously shown the door.
Or pink slipped.
Or shit canned.

Not for writing condescending emails to the head client without bothering to use capital letters.

Not for going AWOL in the middle of $100 million pitch.

Not for chasing tail (XY or XX).

Or taking up permanent residence at the Crown Royale.

These practices, I've come to learn, are all acceptable employee behavior at many of the big holding companies.

Demanding excellence, stirring the pot, pushing back on clients, speaking the brutal honest truth, I learned the hard way, are 'rightful cause for termination.'

Silly me.

Needless to say it comes as quite the surprise that I’ve managed to stay afloat as a freelancer for more than a decade and have never suffered a dry period lasting more than 2 weeks. Quite impressive, particularly when you consider how many folks I have cheesed-off with this occasionally incendiary blog.

Other freelancers will attest, that is highly unusual as well.

How do I explain the longevity? It’s simple really. I focused on what I believe I do best: coming up with ideas and writing. And I excised what I did worst: navigating corporate bureaucracy and career climbing.

Ambition, it turns out, is a curse.

As a result I’ve made myself useful to agencies and clients who often find themselves needing someone useful. As a friend and former boss put it, “Siegel is always good for a solve.”

I don’t think a freelancer could hope for a better compliment.

How shall I mark this auspicious event? Years ago, a friend of mine completed 20 years of faithful service at one agency. He gave them his all. Nights, weekends, vacations, were all sacrificed for the good of the agency.

After two decades of unrivaled commitment they bestowed upon him a beautiful satin jacket.




These satin jackets were quite the fashion item at the time. And were worn exclusively by Hollywood A-listers. And Key Grips. I remember my friend walking through the hallways, peacocking that magnificent satin jacket, and inspiring widespread jealousy that must have lasted all of 3-4 minutes. Tops.

Maybe I’ll buy myself a satin jacket.

  Or maybe with an extravagant lunch at the Olive Garden or Red Lobster with the endless breadsticks, I can convince my buddy to part with his.

There are certain things I look for in a Mexican restaurant.

Most of them have nothing to do with food.

I want to hear ranchero music. Not piped in through some high fidelity system with the latest quadraphonic K9000 stereo speakers.

No. I want it blasted from the kitchen. On an AM-FM radio. With a crooked coat hanger fashioned into an antenna.

I want authentic Mexican art. Not the crap sold to tourists down on Olvera street. Or anything whitewashed enough to make it gringo-friendly or Epcot Center appropriate.

I want Dia de Muertos in all its jagged uncomfortable beauty. I want skulls. I want angry looking men with mustaches bigger than my own. I want crucifixes, lots of crucifixes. I want art hung by a guy who was going for symmetry but didn't have the tools or the patience to achieve it.




I want hot-tempered restaurant workers who yell at each other in Spanish. The kind of Spanish that I understand…

"Chinga su madre."

"Chupame mi verga."

"Me cago en todo lo que se menea!"

And I want a salsa bar with a full accompaniment of intimidating raw peppers.

Jalapeños are nice, if you're 7 years old. Serranos have some kick, but are actually best when fried in salt and butter. Habaneros are what I'm looking for. I like the exotic ones grown in the Hunucma region of the Yucatan for maximum burnosity.

Granted, I've built up a tolerance and have what many call an iron gut. But habaneros are the only peppers that meet my high standards.

They're hot twice.

On entry.

And on exit.

If a Mexican restaurant has all that, and Pinches in Culver City does, the food has to be good. Because the only way to make authentic Mexican food bad is to make it unauthentic.

Oh yeah, my mamma didn't raise no fool, there's one more thing I look for.

Roaches freak me out.

The sight of one turns me into a frightened, screeching 7-year old girl. You can imagine my level of skeeviness when last week in my bathroom, while standing up and returning some beer to the Pacific, I spotted a roach inside the Kleenex box that sits by the toilet.

He was rather large, about 2 inches in length and had set up himself rather cozily atop the next tissue to be drawn from the box.

I finished my business and then rather gingerly lifted the entire box and made a beeline for the trash can in the driveway, because the thought of him slipping out and crawling over my hand put me at DefCon 5.

Upon return, I told my wife what had transpired and she said, perhaps not thinking the thing through…

"Why did you throw out the whole box of tissues?"

"Really?" I replied, "would you want to use one of the remaining tissues in the box?"

That ended that inquiry.

Momentarily at least. Because then came the follow up question.

"Maybe we should get an exterminator?"

One cockroach, and these are the big lone wolf kind not the type that travel in disgusting swarms like the ones seen in a NYC apartment or a horror movie, one sole cockroach gets in the house and it happens every three months or so, and the next thing my wife wants to do is spend $1000 to have a guy in a white jump suit spray the house with the same dead-dead-dead juice I can get in a can for $3.99 at the local supermarket.

This isn't about bringing a gun to a knife fight. This is about bringing a tactical nuclear weapon to a knife fight.

I'm surprised she didn't suggest selling the house.

Not that I'm completely unsympathetic.

Like I said roaches freak me out, but they have a Kafka-esque effect on my wife and change her from a cool, calm and collected individual into a someone less calm, less cool, less collected who will leap atop the coffee table screaming...

"Kill it! Kill it! Kill it!"


France is all abuzz right now.

It has nothing to do with the 70 year anniversary of D-Day.

Oh sure that was big. A bunch of soldiers landed on a beach and fought some German dudes, but did any of them launch a killer mobile platform? Or rewrite the way transactions can be accelerated via the cloud? And where are their banner ads? And case studies?

No, the big to-do in France is on those other beaches.
On the Mediterranean.
Cannes, motherfucker, Cannes.

Right now, as you are reading this, our industry's elite creative class are gearing up for the annual pilgrimage. Trilby hats are being custom-fitted. Plaid shorts are being paired up with laceless loafers. And V-neck T-shirts are flying off the shelves in every douchebag emporium from the north side of Williamsburg to the south.

I don't want to come off as some old bitter cynic -- ok, maybe it's too late for that -- but these awards and the millions of dollars spent on them is nothing more than navel-gazing jackoffery.

Of course, I didn't always feel that way.

There was a time in my career when I scratched and clawed to get my way into a One Show book or a CA Annual. And I have a boxful of hardware and cheap industry trinkets to show for it. It sits in my garage next to the box of snorkel gear we use every three years or so.

But not only has my perspective on these awards has changed, the value of the awards has changed as well.

And I blame the Media Department. Wait, what?

Integration.
360 degree approach.
Holistic, agnostic media platforms.
These are all curses foisted up today's aspiring copywriters and art directors.

Back in the day (don't you love it when 44-year olds toss out terms like that?) you did a TV campaign, some print, some outdoor and maybe a radio spot. If the work was good and it won awards, the art director and the copywriter could lay legitimate claim to the authorship.

But now, there are UX people, coders, banner makers, page take overers, digital strategists, flip-flak confibulators, ad nauseum. And when awards are won, everyone wins. Except the people who did the hard work of coming up with the idea. Their contribution has been marginalized by some egalitarian precept that states, "we're all creative."

It's devaluation by dilution.

As a result you've got some kid who might have a done a banner ad for the Honda Grrrrrr campaign, showing up at job interviews whistling the tune as if he or she had written it. Next thing you know he's the new CCO.

Maybe there's a business idea in here. Just as there are websites that will do background checks on possible dating partners, I could create a similar business that would suss out the creative credentials of many a job applicant.

From what I can see many agencies ought to pay dollar for that kind of service.

As you can see, I'm back at the gym.

No, that's not a selfie.

For the last 7 years I had been swimming, 5 days a week, at the Playa Vista Condo Complex. They have an outstanding outdoor heated pool that is virtually unused by the complex's 7500 residents. On many occasion I found I had the whole pool to myself. If it weren't for guard by the gate I would have taken advantage of the solitude and swam in the buff.

But last week, much to my dismay, my brother up and left for an apartment in downtown, so he wouldn't have to commute on the Santa Monica freeway.

There are many things we Angelenos do to avoid spending time on the freeway. I'd let them amputate one of my toes for example if it meant never having to get on the 405.

Fortunately there is an LA Fitness Center right across the street from Playa Vista. And they have an outdoor pool. A more crowded pool with cloudier, dirtier water, but a pool nonetheless.

So I did what I swore I'd never do again, I joined the gym. I know in Los Angeles they like to call them health clubs, but for this upstate New Yorker they're gyms. And I hate gyms.

My aversion to gym culture was grown right here in Southern California.

Years ago, I worked next door to the Gold's Gym in Venice . This was, and is, the Mecca of bodybuilding. Chiat/Day employees were offered a 50% discount on memberships so I opted in and spent my lunch hours grunting it out with guys who eat metal plates for breakfast.

It was quite humbling.

Once, on a shoulder day, I was benching somewhere between 225-235 lbs., a woman with a jaw that looked like one of those cement barriers set outside a foreign embassy in places like Yemen, asked if she could work in with me. She promptly loaded up the barbell with 300 pounds and emasculated me with a simple, "No, I don't need a spot."

Anyway, now I'm back at a gym. With the musty smells.The sleazy salesman. And the mirror-hogging preeners.

Last week, as I was getting dressed, I watched a guy concoct some kind of protein shake in his handheld manual protein shake maker. He carefully measured out the powdered Ornithine, sprinkled in some Arginine, a handful of whey, lemon juice, cayenne pepper and jigger of liquified rhino toenail.

That's the other thing people in Los Angles will do. They'll swallow anything and everything if they think it will make them look and feel younger. Not healthier, younger. You know, for their next glossy 8X10 headshot.

With all the ingredients in the mixer. He removed his shirt, stood in front of the mirror and began shaking the elixir. Not just shaking it. He literally genuflected in what was clearly a well-rehearsed routine. He'd shake the cocktail above his head, then bring it just below his waist. And then, at shoulder height, he'd shake to his left and then to his right.

It was a little Zumba. A little OCD. A little sickening self-admiration.

As you might expect, it went on for minutes. It could still be going on right now.

As I left the gym, I was tempted to make some snarky remark to Mr.Watch-Me-Make-My-Lunch but the guy looked a little like the one in the picture above and I thought better of it.


Normally I don't put up a post on Friday, but this week is a little different.

You see, after a decade-long search I have finally been able to track down a copy of another low-budget (everything we did for ABC was low-budget) effort featuring the massively talented Steve Shenbaum.

I hounded folks at Chiat/Day for a copy, no luck.

I hounded the art director and copywriter for a copy, no luck.

Finally, I hounded the Director of the spot Stephen Kessler, no luck.

Fortunately Stephen has become a big time Hollywood guy. And has gone on to direct features and documentaries. You might be familiar with his doc on Paul Williams .

Well, like all big time Hollywood guys, Stephen has an entourage. And earlier this week he set one of his ambitious assistants to the task. Lo and behold his resourceful assistant found what none of us could, some high quality quicktimes of the 4 spot series.

Here's my favorite:





Yes, the small boxy portable TV with the channel changing knob dates the spot.

And maybe I'm inhaling my own fumes -- a practice perfected by creatives and even agencies -- but it's work that I still enjoy. I hope you will too.

Finally, another word on Mr. Kessler, since I am now forever indebted to him.

Stephen was part of the old Chiat/Day crew. He was copywriter and part of the team responsible for much of the legendary work that built their storied reputation.

Work that was chronicled in a book Stephen compiled called Chiat/Day The First Twenty Years.


I'm too young (that's not a phrase I get to use too often) to have been included in this edition.

However, I'm hoping Mr. Kessler, or somebody, is hard at work on the follow up book, Chiat/Day The Second Twenty Years. Maybe even some of our late 90's campaigns (ABC, Homestore, Earthlink), will be included.

If that happens, I know how NOT to promote the book .

If you've ever worked on a restaurant account, and I'm specifically talking to you ad people, you know you have to show the food.

Even though the food in the commercial or print ad looks nothing like the swill you will be served at Chili's, Applebee's or Red Lobster.

In fact, the food you see on TV is often made of plastic or drizzled with some benzene-based liquid that can only be handled by a qualified haz-mat team.

The truth is if you're advertising food, you're in the food porn business.

Many ad agencies find this repulsive and will go to great lengths to build contrived stories around the preparation of the food. Or cheesy testimonials by people who love the food (and the checks they're getting for talking about the food). They'll do anything they have to not to show the food.

And, when they eventually cave in to the demands of the client, they'll have heated arguments with about the food to non-food ratio in the spot.

"Look, it's 17 seconds of food and 13 seconds of people."

"We'd like the spots better if there were 18 seconds of food and 12 seconds of people."

By the way, this is no exaggeration, I've sat in these meetings and witnessed the stopwatch wars.

Years ago, when I was at Y&R, we won the El Pollo Loco account. We turned this well-worn problem into the solution. And embraced the food porn, not as an evil necessity but as a point of differentiation.

We literally filmed citrus-marinated chicken over a flaming grill and captured hours worth of footage from as many different angles as possible. And then used the food footage for the entirety of the spot.

Our reasoning was simple.

First, there wasn't any money in the budget to do a full fledged campaign.

More importantly, we understood the simple stimulus-response mechanics of watching chicken on a grill.

It's impossible to watch and NOT start salivating. Imagine that, restaurant advertising that actually made you hungry.

Apparently that wasn't good enough for our EPL client. Same store sales went up 13.8% in the one year that we had the account. And then, like many stupid clients -- did I say stupid, I meant incredibly fucking moronic -- they put the account up for review.

We did about 75 commercials using the chicken footage. And will immodestly say that every one of those commercials is better than anything El Pollo Loco has put on the air in the last 10 years.

Every one of them.


As you might know, this is Vault Week. Where we reach back into the deep depository of ads gone by and shamelessly relive the glory of the past.

I was lucky enough to have been around for the dot com craze, those wild wooly days when the Internet was in its infancy and clients were rushing to throw their substantial VC money at crazy concepts that would never survive a focus group.

Gerbils flew from canons .

Babies dispensed financial information.

And angry wolverines chewed up marching bands.

Some called it careless, but I posit the best and funniest commercials were done in the late 90's.

At Chiat/Day we had a slew of dot com clients, large and small. We even dealt with one supercilious CEO who decided to bilk investors for millions of dollars. He's now sitting in a Federal Prison and I still can't contain my schadenfreud.

Another one of our clients, a respectable one, Bizrate.com,  was an outfit that rated Internet commerce sites, sort of an online Yelp. They didn't falsify revenue and thus couldn't compete with the big boys on TV.

And so we turned to radio -- a lost art form if there ever was one. These days, with commercial free Sirius XM and with channel changing buttons located way too conveniently on the steering wheel, it can be argued that radio doesn't make sense as a media platform.

That's too bad, because I loved doing radio.

I also loved working with the incredibly-talented April Winchell ,  who helped produce this spot as well as 5 others.





It was great opportunity to play around.

Plus, anytime you get to say "screwed" as a euphemism for fucked over, well that's a good day in my book.

Today's blast from the past comes courtesy of Bill Hornstein.

This was a little mini-campaign that came in Year Two of the ABC Yellow extravaganza.

After we made hay of defending television and celebrating the general boobiness of the boob tube, we had to get down to the heavy lifting of promoting the shows. This proved to be quite difficult as the shows the network had decided to air were frankly not quite airworthy.

Stilted, stagey sitcoms that had that vitamin aroma one often finds in an home designated for assisted living.

No one was standing around the water cooler the next day talking about the hijinks seen the previous night on shows like Hiller and Diller  or Over the Top  (which sadly was not an over-promise).

As the agency of record, we were not asked to do the typical slice-and-dice network promos that have become to bladders what Pavlov's bell was to a dog's salivary gland.

The network asked for something more conceptual.

And for better or worse -- worse as you'll soon see -- we rose to the challenge.

It's not easy to promote three crappy sitcoms in twenty seconds and have it ladder up to the Wednesday Night Comedy Showcase that the client had hoped would become appointment TV. Particularly on a budget of $5000.

Check out the first of three spots.





That's right there were two more in this painful series. Thankfully, they're in a part of the vault that is currently inaccessible.

I'll never forget the look on the client's faces when we presented this little trilogy.

"They're not funny," said the client.

"They're not supposed to be. We were going for unfunny." I replied.

"And you have succeeded fantastically."

Today I start Month 4 of a gig I landed way back in February. On my birthday, no less. It was a great present.

The office is close to my house, quite possibly the most important of all job criteria.

I've already produced about a dozen or so spots, though they are of the hard sell, keep-the-revenue- flowing variety.

And the place is buzzing with energy, growth and young people who look at me and wonder, "what Don Draper's grandfather is doing in the building?"

I must be doing something right because they keep extending me. And though I'm not looking for a gig today, there's no reason to let up with the self-promotion. It's the one of many things I've learned in my ten years of freelancing.

If I may mangle Mamet's classic soliloquy from Glengarry Glen Ross, the secret to successful salesmanship is all about ABO.

Always Be Opening.

That is, always be opening new doors to new opportunities. You know, because eventually the folks who currently employ me will tire of my schtick, see through the facade and kick this old man to the curb.

That's not the nature of freelancing. That's the nature of advertising.

In the past two weeks, I've had to turn down work from 3 other agencies. Little confession, as much as I like getting booked on a job, I get a disproportionate amount of satisfaction having to decline it.

You see, it's great to be popular. It reminds me of high school when all the hot girls would beg me to take them to the dance. That might be a little revisionist history, but the point is, and I'm sure most 44-year old writers will concur, it's good to be in demand.

Moreover, the plethora of work allows me to redirect some of the overflow to my copywriter friends. With the hope that one day, one of these losers will repay the favor. Though I'm not counting on it.

And so today, and indeed all week, I'm pimping myself. I'm going to the vault and finding work that I've always been proud of and displaying it for your amusement/ridicule.

The first item I pulled from the Vault is the billboard you see above. It was one of many I did with Steve Levit for Castlemaine XXXX, an authentic Australian beer. And though it won all kinds of rewards I distinctly remember how I struggled with the wording of the idea.

I knew there was good pee-pee joke in there and literally tried dozens of different combinations. We settled on this even though it violates the 7 word maximum for outdoor boards.

It still bothers me to this day. If I could jump in the time machine and go back 20 years, I'd omit the parenthetical phrase and let the reader use some imagination to close the loop.

Of course if I could go back twenty years I also wouldn't have bought a house so close to the freeway.



Last week I reported on the progress of my new dental implants.

However, it seems I jumped the gun. I thought the dentist was going to be drilling holes in my skull in preparation for my new permanent, titanium based front teeth.

That did not happen. Instead, we spent an hour and a half removing the dental bridge that I had always assumed would follow me to the dirt nap. It's pictured above for your sadistic pleasure.

I'm not going to lie, I had nightmares about the bridge removal.

Cursed with a vivid imagination, I lay awake the night before wondering how the dentist was going to yank this inch and a half wide appliance out of my jaw. Particularly since when it was put there, the original dentist assured me this thing was going nowhere.

My worst fears came to fruition.

The proceedings were started with 4, count em four, injections of novacaine through my upper jaw and perilously close to the temporal lobes of my brain responsible for trigonometry, bookkeeping and the composition of urgent CTA's (calls to action, for you ad laymen).

Once sufficiently numbed, the dentist reached for the appliance removal device. Let's put the euphemisms aside, these were nothing more than needle-nose pliers.

He tugged.
He tugged a little harder.
He tugged with a wiggle to the left. And a wiggle to the right.

Bad news, tugging was not going to do the trick.

The dentist turned to his right.


That's when he reached for the tapper.

Another euphemism.
The tapper is dental-speak for hammer and chisel. I was no longer a patient, I was a plumbing project .

"This may feel a little uncomfortable."

A little, was the understatement of the morning.

The tapping and the chiseling and the yanking proved unsuccessful. That's when the circular saw came out. He didn't have a euphemism for the saw.

Mind you it wasn't the kind of circular saw you'd see on This Old House, but a tiny version of the same, made specifically for splitting the sheet metal in my mouth.

If you look at the picture above you can see where a vertical ridge was ripped into each of the bridge supports. This was followed by more tapping. More yanking. And then finally a gush of air where my dental bridge once was.

Right now I'm walking around with a temporary bridge. Some cheap resin fashioned to look like teeth, held in by nothing stronger than Elmer's Glue. I've been told not eat anything sturdier than an overripe peach, lest the bridge comes loose and falls out on its own.

Considering what I went through that morning, that's the least of my concerns.

In two weeks I go back to have the titanium bases installed. That's when the drill comes out.



Did I say drill?
 I meant bicuspid implantation device.

Know what I love?

A good page takeover.

OK, that's nowhere near the truth.
No one likes loves a good page takeover.

You show me someone who does and I'll show you someone who never skips the pre-roll ads on a youtube video.

Someone who actually clicks banner ads.

Someone who answers every damn Buzzfeed quiz and is eager to share with the world what kind of bug/flower/dog breed/quilting pattern he or she would be in another lifetime.

In Barcelona.

In terms of annoying media choices, the page takeover is the digital equivalent of the urinal cake. It's there. It's unavoidable. And if we could we'd squeeze our sphincters and obliterate it with a steady and strong stream of annoyed piss.

And yet we, the advertising industry, persist and sell this malarkey to our clients in the interest of appearing 360 degrees or fully integrated or media agnostic.

The fact is, no "campaign" gets out the agency door unless it's accompanied by a slew of page takeover options. These are usually conceived and designed at the very last minute. Triggered by a sharp account coordinator going over the deck and making sure all the deliverables are in order.

"Oh shit," usually uttered 45 minutes before the foam core boards are packed away, "we don't have any page takeovers."

I know this sounds like old school heresy.

We tell our clients that a good idea can come from anywhere. But, in all the years I've been doing this, and I'm 44 so it's quite substantial, I've never seen a Chief Creative Officer say, "This is a great page takeover idea, let's develop some TV, print and guerrilla ideas that support this."

Never.

I'd love to see the research that documents the effectiveness of advertising page takeovers. Actually I'd rather have more painful dental surgery than wade through that. Besides there's nothing anyone say that would convince me these page takeovers have any effect on consumers.

People visit a website for news.
Or sports results.
Or stock quotes.
They don't want to be interrupted and have roadblocks placed between themselves and what they want from the internet.

Know who doesn't do page takeovers?
The porn industry.
(So I hear)

If you ask me, we can learn a lot from the porn industry.

Heard a great interview with legendary singer David Crosby.

The DJ had asked David about his politics. Crosby comes from a time when singers and musicians had a world view and infused it into their music. Unlike some of the lyrics you might hear today that sound something like:

Bitch get my gatt
Or you gonna to get got.

Crosby was asked how he felt about concert goers who come to hear his music but may not care to hear about his politics. David said it was, "too fucking bad. The two are inseparable and if the audience doesn't like it they can go elsewhere."

On that note, I know you come to this blog for my sometimes humorous, sometimes suicidal, anecdotes about the ad industry but today I'm going to launch into another tirade about Arab hypocrisy and the threat of Sharia law.

Have you heard of BDS?

It's a movement by Palestinians that calls for Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions. As movements go, I much prefer this approach to the previous intifadas, which involved indiscriminate suicide bombings, throat slitting and plane hijackings.

More specifically the BDS folks are calling on colleges and financial institutions to walk away from Israeli innovation and to reject any products exported from the Holy Land. Last week the students at the University of Washington -- where my daughter will be going in the fall -- wisely rejected the call for Israeli divestiture.

Why the BDS movement you may ask?
Because these ill-informed leftists see Israel as the obstacle to Palestinian statehood.

Choosing to ignore the fact that the State of Palestine was established in May of 1948 and then quickly unestablished, by unhappy Palestinians, in June 1948.

They've also chosen to ignore the fact that billions of dollars of international aid to Palestinians was siphoned off and now sits in a Swiss bank account held by Mrs. Yassir Arafat. And in her shoe closet.

Or that Fatah and Hamas, the two governing bodies of the Palestinian people cannot agree on a flag, or the official state hummus, much less how to "rule" their own people.

Perhaps they could model their new state after one of the other successful self-proclaimed Islamic countries in the region. But have you seen the sectarian violence in Egypt, Libya, Iraq, Syria, Sudan, Yemen, Lebanon, Pakistan, Nigeria, Mali, etc. Not a lot of good role models there.

In Sudan they are getting ready to stone a pregnant woman for converting to Christianity.
And who could forget the new crucifixions that are popping up all around the region (except ironically in Israel)?

The BDS people can overlook all that.


And so they do what people have always done for the past 5,000 years, they blame Jews. They've even gone so far as to label Israel an Apartheid state.

This takes, as my people would say, chutzpah.

Palestinian literacy and standard of living are among the highest of all people living in Arab or Islamic countries.

In the interest of brevity I won't bore you with all the facts and statistics. Suffice to say in neighboring Syria, millions of people have been displaced and more than 100,000 civilians have been murdered.

Quiz me this BDS Advocate, given a choice, would those dead Syrians prefer the grave or some good old fashioned Israeli Apartheid living?


It has now been more than 8 months since I wrote my last manifesto.

And I do believe we are entering a new era of advertising.

An era I am calling The Age of the Antifesto.

I for one couldn't be happier.
People hate the manifesto. And that's fine with me, because I hate writing them.

There was a time I was being brought in to agencies to crank out two manifestos in a week. That became three. And then the three manifestos a week quickly became three manifestos in three days. Three days quickly became one day.

And on one occasion I had a client ask me for a new manifesto in 45 minutes!

Was it any good?

Good is in the eye of the beholder.

It assumes a standard.
A standard that…

See how easy it is to slip into that crappy pseudo-important tone of voice?

When manifestos had their heyday, back in the 90's, I had the good fortune to be working with Mark Fenske, who was, and is, a writer's writer . Mark is a naturally-built middle linebacker, standing 6'4" and weighing in at a very decent bowler's score.

As such, he manhandles words as if they were a skinny punter from the Czech Republic.

I still have some of Mark's old manifestos in my files.
And refer to them when the going gets tough.
Or steal from them when the deadline gets impossible.

In any case the pendulum is swinging back the other way.

Not every company can be like Apple. Nor should they be. Computers impact people lives. Scented candles, restaurant-style tortilla chips, online hotel aggregators, do not.

Smart CEO's who want to sell their shit are contacting ad agencies to help them sell more of their shit. And they're doing so without the aid of some hastily-written, easily-ignored corporate poetry.

Yet, weeks from now, sure as the deals that won't last forever, I will be asked to write some aspirational horse-hockey for some delusional CMO who believes his company's dohickey or whatchamacallit can rescue mankind.

Ignoring the most common of common sense.

Because the Soda Pop Pushers, Mayonnaise Makers and Fast Food Vendors who are crazy enough to  think they can change the world, are the ones who won't.


Today's post is being written in advance (dirty little secret, all my posts are written in advance).

But yesterday, Wednesday, I went to see my dentist to begin some major restorative work.

Today, Thursday I will, hopefully, be under the hazy influence of some major opiates.

Just to screw around with the time-space continuum a bit more, a long time ago my brother and I were wrestling in the top bunk of our bunk beds. Oddly enough, on certain family get togethers and providing there is enough alcohol we still like to tangle for alpha male dominance.

In any case, my brother kicked me off the top bunk. I landed on the hard wooden floors face first. Actually upper jaw first. The six foot fall knocked out my two front teeth and left a pool of blood on the hardwood floor that was a 1/4 inch deep.

As a result I was the only kid in first grade with dentures.

Years later when I moved out to California I decided to replace the flipper in my mouth with something more permanent. Low on financial resources I took my dilemma to the UCLA Dental School, where apprentice dentists work free of charge.

I was assigned an Egyptian student who, after taking one look in my mouth, practically jumped for joy. He said my missing front teeth would be the perfect assignment for his final exam.

Under the watchful eyes of tenured professors in dentistry, George, an odd name for an Egyptian, installed a permanent bridge across my upper jaw. Weeks afterwards, he sent me a kind thank you letter and told me he received an A+ on his final exam.

That bridge help up for more than 25 years until last week when I was gorging myself on some BBQ beef ribs. I heard an audible crack and thought maybe I had splintered the bone on the rib.

No such luck. The porcelain teeth broke off the metal bridge.

I looked in the mirror and saw metal, lots and lots of metal.


And now the bridge must come down.

I've come to learn that dentists don't do bridges anymore. They favor dental implants. So yesterday a few titanium bases were drilled into my skull. Weeks from now those bases will be plugged. And weeks after that new beautiful enamel teeth will be screwed onto the bases.

But it will be worth it. Not only because I will receive a new prescription for Vicoden.

But, and this is hard to fathom, I've been led to believe that when all is said and done I'll be even prettier than I am today.

If you haven't guessed I am a man of many pet peeves.

You don't get to a 1000+ posts on a blog without having some irritations. Or in my case, way too many.

Perhaps I should learn to meditate but I can't help thinking nothing will dry the well faster than a sense of tranquility and ease with the world at large.

And so I willfully remain peeved. And the world returns the favor with an endless supply of asininity.

Nothing illustrates that more than the mood board.

Years ago, my partner and I were working at an ad agency, an unnamed local satellite of a much larger worldwide agency. The creative directors in charge were young. Given to tattoos, Capri pants and artisanal coffee; all well-documented pet peeves of mine.

While they were long on affectations, they were noticeably shorthanded in their ability to tell a story.

And so we found ourselves, on several late nights, preparing elaborate mood boards to accompany and elucidate our scripts.

My best thinking and my best writing are done early so I'm not fond of being in the office at 8 o'clock on any night. By then Final Jeopardy has been answered and I've been robbed of an opportunity to flaunt my abundant trivial knowledge in front of my family.

I'm particularly foul about staying late to do a Google image search for just the right rustic farmhouse barn.

Or the perfectly coiffed middle aged housewife.

Or the demographically-correct breed of pet dog.

Let's say you're a client, you're the Chief Marketing Officer of a large multibillion dollar company. You've spent years in the business and have an intuitive feel for how a brand's message needs to be conveyed.

And let's say I'm in your fancy Chief Marketing Officer's office and I'm presenting you a script. And just for example the spot opens with, "A woman walks into a luxurious high end apartment."

Do you really need to see a mood board -- like the one above -- in order to understand the visual cues one might find in a luxurious high end apartment?

No.

If anything you should be insulted that we, the ad agency, have discounted your imagination and opted to spoon feed you meaningless generic images screen grabbed off a computer while eating crappy, over-spiced Thai food.

You should rightfully be insulted and cheesed off that we assigned billable hours to that stupid endeavor.

Conversely, if you are a CMO and you need a mood board because you can't conjure up the images in your head, well then I would respectfully submit that your reach has exceeded your grasp.

We think of freeways or highways or thruways as high speed roads that take us to the places we know we are going. Nothing is left to chance. We can see our destinations clearly on a NAV system or on our iPhones.

But this is the story of unknown destinations.
And how the 405 freeway saved my life.

Back in 2004, I was working as Group Creative Director for Y&R in Irvine, CA. By all accounts it was a decent job.

I enjoyed the company of my boss, a legendary art director with a very quirky and dry sense of humor.

My sometimes difficult client, Jaguar, had been experiencing record setting sales.

And I was bringing home a healthy paycheck.

That is when I could get home.

You see, 53 grueling miles stood between the front door of my house in Culver City and the front door of my office behind the Orange Curtain.

If you've ever tried to leave Dodger Stadium at the top half of the 8th inning, when everyone is scurrying for the exits, you know exactly what the 405 or as I like to call it -- the Asphalt Ribbon of Death -- feels like.

It's a parking lot that's about 5 mph past parking.

I would often look over at my fellow commuters and see that my pain was their pain. Hands flailed. Steering wheels were pounded. And silent screams muffled by the A/C and laminated windows, were heard only by those doing the screaming.

I would tell my wife, "I was one Sig Alert away from going on a mass roadside murder spree."

Fortunately, I do not own a gun.
And recognizing my own short fuse, never will.
I call that responsible non-gun ownership.

One night the 405 got the best of me. And my wife, a fount of wisdom (even though marrying me puts her sagacity in question), told me to quit.

"Quit?" I said, "I've got nowhere to go. I don't have another job. And there aren't many ad agencies looking to hire a 34-year old timer."

But it wasn't what she said as much as it was how she said it that put me over the edge.

If she had to sit through one more meal listening to me gripe about work, the god damned drive to Irvine and the over-abundance of chain restaurants in Orange County, she was going to assemble a crack team of divorce attorneys and I'd never see my jacuzzi again.

And so I informed the creative leaders at Y&R that they would have to do without my creativity. And my surly demeanor.

In a couple of weeks I will be celebrating 10 successful and quite happy years as a freelancer. All because I decided to get off the freeway and allow myself the freedom to get a little lost.

I read a great piece of writing advice about the importance of spontaneity. A famous author said, "Never write the ending of your story beforehand. It has to be earned." She was right.

For me at least, the Highway to Hell turned into the Highway to Heaven.

Years ago, I took my wife and two daughters to New York City, land of loogie hockers, Shakespearean self-talkers and entrepreneurial sidewalk falafel makers. It is the greatest city in the world. By a New York Mile.

I was in the Big Apple under unnatural circumstances. That is, having lived in the Bronx, several outposts in Queens and the suburban hamlet of Suffern, I was in New York as a tourist.

As such, we did all the shitty things tourists do.

Rockefeller Center.
The Empire State Building.
The Statue of Liberty.
We even visited some chocolate emporium near Times Square that sent my daughters into some confectionary nirvana.

This was an aberration. As a candy store in New York will always be some fleabag bodega where my mother would send me to pick up her cigarettes.

Prior to returning to LA, my oldest daughter wanted to see the Guggenheim. I obliged even though I had been there many times before.

In 3rd grade.
In 5th grade.
In 6th grade.
And I believe twice more in 11th grade.

The Guggenheim is a required course in the New York State Public School curriculum.

But this time was different because the entire museum had been commandeered by a Chinese artist named Cai Quo Chang. I had never heard of him. Which is not all that unusual since I can name about 5 artists, tops: Rembrandt, Picasso, Dali, that dude that cut off his ear and my friend Rohitash Ro  .

The first "piece", upon entering the museum, was an out-of-world experience in taxidermy; 300 stuffed wolves, charging in a pack, leaping off the ground and running headlong into a large wall of acrylic glass. I had never seen anything like it.

My jaw was dragging on the ground as I walked through the museum and made my way to the top circular level. That's where this non-museum going, culturally-ignorant, football-watching neanderthal,  was handsomely rewarded.

Michaelangelo had his marble. Caldor had his mobiles. Cai Quo Chang's preferred medium is gunpowder. He designs with it. He paints with it. And of course he lights matches to it.




It was a day at the museum that I will never forget. And for years afterward, I often brought Cai Quo Chang's name to the creative table, suggesting we use him and his penchant for blowing stuff up to hawk some car or soft drink or feminine hygiene product.

But it's always been a swing and a miss. So today I'm giving up.

And I'm giving you, the young creative professional the source of what could be a monster spot. It's all about giving back to the ad community.

It's the same generous spirit I share with Jordan Zimmerman . I can't fly you to South Florida to tour the house that tent sales built. Or wine and dine you at the Ft. Lauderdale Olive Garden. Or share my biceps and my formula for building a $33 trillion empire.

But I can point you in the direction of an artist who is ripe for the ad world.

If you do pursue Cai Quo Chang and you do make an award-winning commercial with dead wolves or TNT, all I ask for in return is a slash.

And a Facebook share.


"Can you pick me up? Now."

If you were to scan through my iPhone you'd find this text in all its glorious forms. As the father of two teenage daughters, it's to be expected.

For those of you about to enter this stage of parenthood, let this be a word of caution. In addition to your regular job you will take on the duties of a full time chaffuer.

If at all possible, try to dissuade your son or daughter from getting too tight with Persians. This will complicate your life to no end.

I mean no disrespect, but Persians, it seems, have a different understanding of time and time management. I can't tell you how many times I have delivered my daughter to her Iranian friend's house in Beverly Hills only to find out --sometimes 20 minutes later -- that her Persian pal had a dentist appointment. Or a class with a tutor.

It is uncanny. And my friend from Tehran concurs it is a common cultural occurrence.

In any case, as I was in the car on my way to retrieve my daughter I was stopped at a red light. There, I noticed an older black man who looked surprisingly like the one pictured above. He was running across the street hoping to catch the city bus.

He missed it. And I could see the disappointment in his eyes.

The light turned green and I proceeded to get my daughter.

On the way back to the house I noticed the older man, not really old, about 64, twenty years older than me, was still sitting on the bench waiting for the next bus.

Then I did what I should have done in the first place, I pulled over.

"What are you doing Dad?", I heard from the back seat.

The old man hopped in, a bit flabbergasted by this unusual gesture from a total stranger.

Turned out he didn't need to go that far. Just a few miles to the next bus station where his son was going to pick him up.

He told us his name was Addis Ababa, or something that sounded like that. And that he had come to America about a year ago, from his native country of Eritrea.

He couldn't stop thanking me.

Little did he know that I should have been thanking him. For giving me an opportunity to put on a little demonstration for my child. To show her the value of a random act of kindness. Not that I want her picking up strange old men at bus stops, but you get the point.

I bring all this up because yesterday CNN reported that one in four people throughout the globe harbor anti-Semitic feelings . This, despite the fact that more 5 billion people on the planet have never even met a Jew. The percentage was significantly higher in Africa and the Middle East.

Statistically speaking -- and yes I understand the danger of making broad generalizations while making a broad generalization -- there's a good chance that my new friend Addis, who seemed like a very nice person, is one these uninformed people. And that for unknown reasons he bears a hatred for Members of the Tribe.

Perhaps my impromptu courtesy would have dissuaded him of those ugly preconceptions.

I didn't introduce myself as Rich Siegel, American Jew.

Now I wish I had.


When you blog as much as I do, Monday through Thursday, and occasionally Friday, there is a tendency to get tired of one's own voice.

You, the reader, can escape my non-stop ranting and petty self-righteousness by simply not logging onto R17.

I don't have that luxury. Sadly, neither does my wife. I probably should have bought her a pair Bose QC-15 Noise canceling Headphones for Mother's Day.

In any case, today I'm going to turn off the diatribe machine and talk about my daughter. My youngest daughter, Abby.

This year she has been serving on the Leadership Council at school. They're the liaisons between the students and the staff. It's a Catholic School so it's not like the teachers are actually going to yield to any student demands. It's more about the appearance of compromise. And tricking the students into believing they have a say in the school's future.

In many ways it's much like our own democracy.

Abby enjoyed being on the council so much that she decided to run for Student Body Class President next year. You can see one of her campaign posters above. I offered to help her write and design the posters but she wanted to do it by herself.

Hence, my idea, "I Like Kike"….


…playing off her Hebraic roots and Eisenhower's iconic presidential campaign, never saw the light of day.

I'm not sure the Monsignor would have approved but I have a warm spot for self-deprecation.

For weeks Abby worked on her campaign. The teacher representative told us she worked harder than all the other candidates, combined. She made posters, canvassed the hallways, even baked cookies to sway voters who were still on the fence.

But as we have seen many times over, the best candidate and the hardest working candidate doesn't always win.

There was a palpable sadness here in Culver City that lasted a good three days. It magically disappeared when Abby checked the DVR and discovered an unwatched episode of Pretty Little Liar.

I am no stranger to the backward ways of Nigeria.

Several years ago, I wrote a book Tuesdays With Mantu, My Adventures With a Nigerian Con Artist ,  currently the 2, 974,316th best selling book on Amazon.

During the course of writing the book I became very acquainted with Nigeria's inherent corruption, soaring illiteracy and of course, their sectarian violence between the country's Christian and Muslim population.

It's the same religious divide that accounts for slayings, murders and kidnappings in Mali, Sudan, Lebanon, Egypt, and as far east as Malaysia.

Two weeks ago, as most of us know, a toxic group of Islamic extremists (for some reason CNN is unwilling to identify them as such) kidnapped 234 girls from a school and has allegedly sold them into slavery.
Or marriage.
I'm still trying to decide which is worse.

That atrocity was followed by a mass murder in one of the villages in Northern Nigeria.

As the father of two daughters and as an admitted anti-Islamist, this whole affair makes my blood boil (which is no great feat as my blood's default setting is simmer).

Of course, I am not alone.







The first lady, Anne Hathaway and Puff Snoop Diddy Lion Dog, have also joined the chorus of outraged people.

I'm not a big fan of the hashtag. Boko Haram doesn't respond to hashtags.

To paraphrase Woody Allen, the only way to deal with these modern day Nazis is with bricks and baseball bats. And Cluster Bombs.

Look at Puff Dog's sign, he added urgency to the message and wrote NOW in all caps. With an exclamation point. If these Boko Haram guys ever expect to get bottle service at the club they better listen to Snoop Diddy.

While the volume is rising in this part of the world, the silence in the Muslim part of the world is, not surprisingly, deafening.

Years ago, a Danish newspaper had the audacity to publish some cartoons depicting Mohammed. Riots broke out in Africa, the Middle East and all the way to the tip of Brunei in the Southern Pacific. Thousands took to the streets. Embassies were sacked. And 50+ people died because someone had dared to draw a cartoon and insult Islam.

The same scene repeated itself when Comedy Central planned to air an episode of South Park featuring a cartoon character named Mohammed in a Bear Suit.

A FUCKIN' Bear Suit!



"Moderate" Muslims, said to number 1.5 billion, claim that extremists who blow up planes, strap on suicide vests, throw acid in the faces of little girls and kidnap 234 children, are not true Muslims. That they do not follow the Quran. And that these extremists have hijacked their faith.

If that's the case, doesn't it warrant some outrage on their part?
Where are the street protests in Dearborn?
In Islamabad?
In Mecca?
Where are the fatwas on Boko Haram?
Where are the imams and Grand Mufti's shouting 5 times a day from the tallest minarets, "Bring Back Our Girls!"

Their silence, their apathy, their willingness to let 234 Nigerian girls disappear or 120,00 Syrians to be murdered, is the true insult to Islam.

Moreover, it's an insult to humanity.

While the NBA struggles with issues of character and ill-informed stupidity at its highest levels, the advertising industry finds itself doing the same.

You might remember 9 months ago we heard of the proposed $35 billion merger of Omnicom (an alma mater) and Publicis (also an alma mater).

This "marriage of equals" was to bring us "untold synergy and a global platform with which to ideate, implement and execute scalable innovative and disruptive communications devices for the betterment of our clients and indeed all of mankind."

Which is another way of saying a few obscenely rich white dudes could have expanded their harem of mistresses and purchased a new fleet of yachts.

That's not jealousy you're sensing there, that's a finely polished ulcer of bitter frustration.

In today's modern advertising industry there's not even the illusion of fairness.

Workers bees like myself, and probably you, never get equity in an ad agency, particularly those owned by the holding companies. You and I were not invited to the wealth distribution party. You have to be a made man or a made woman -- oh who are we we kidding it's only men -- to secure a position at the billion dollar feeding trough.

And getting to the top of Mt. Advertising is not a matter of creating great ideas, entering the iconic language of pop culture or even mastering this new digital landscape.

If I'm not mistaken, the capos…er, CEO's of the four holding companies, Messrs. Wren, Levy, Sorrell and Nadal have never written a headline.

Never comped a layout.

Never scratched out a banner ad in their life.

I'd bet a testicle not one of them has ever laid hands on a gator board.

All that is moot.

Because as many you heard, last week the urge to merge lost its surge. And the deal was called off. There was some hooey in the press about the marriage failing because of a "clash of cultures."

Give me a break. I know the Supreme Court said corporations are people, but holding companies don't have cultures.

Holding companies have vaults where they hold all the money. Maybe the Omnicom vault was jet black and the Publicis vault was charcoal grey. A junior art director with a Pantone chart could have mediated that little clash.

Adweek reported that both companies have spent a combined $100 million in fees for lawyers and international accountants to sort out the deal; the deal that didn't happen. And all it bought them was a public relations nightmare.

That money has literally been pissed into the wind.

How could it have been better spent?

* $100 million could have been set aside for a pension plan, you know for the advertising people who actually do the advertising work for an advertising company.

* $100 million could have been used to build proper offices. Not some fakakta Superdesk , but real offices, with doors that close. So that you can get on the phone and describe in detail that funny rash you discovered on your inner thigh.

* $100 million could have been used for flight upgrades. Comfortable, humane seats in business class for demoralized copywriters who have been asked to give up time with their friends and family and don't want to sit 7 hours in coach, in a middle seat wedged between a fat guy and an older woman who chain smokes and wears too much perfume.

* $100 million could have been spread across the board. Divied up between the collective 130,000 employees at both organizations. I did the math. It works out to a $750 bonus for each and every employee.

Imagine the note that some smart CEO could have penned to accompany that unexpected windfall:


Dear OmniCom or Publicis employee,

We've recently been approached to merge with one of our competitors. This is in no doubt because of the value and worth you have given our company. Your loyalty, determination and hard work have raised our profile in the industry.

None of this would have happened had it not been for you.

After careful consideration of the deal and before we engage a hoard of outrageously expensive lawyers, we have turned down that offer. Mostly because we're not in the merger and acquisition business.

We're in the business of advertising. And our most valuable assets ride up and down the elevator everyday.

Accordingly we'd like you to have this small token of our appreciation -- a check for $750.

Pay some bills, go out to dinner, throw a party for your son to make up for the birthday you missed.

And thank you for making us look good.

Signed,

Your Leader

Of course, it didn't happen that way.
It never does.


Yesterday, I wrote about our whirlwind experience with ABC and showed an ad we did for Politically Incorrect. That's when I suddenly remembered my hotblooded exchange with its star, Bill Maher.

Of course to tell this story correctly we've got to jump in the time machine.

In 1997, Chiat/Day teamed me up with a freelance art director, John Shirley.


Apart from our toothy grins, John and I had absolutely nothing in common.

He was a blond haired, surfer dude given to earrings, chin air and picture books.
I was a fat Jew from NY who chose to wear my facial hair above the lip.

What we did have in common, and still do, is an ability to make each other laugh.

Shortly after we won the ABC account we were invited to NY for something called an upfront. All the stars were there. After a few top shelf cocktails, compliments of the Disney shareholders, John did what I could never do.

He literally inserted himself into snapshots with the stars. Think of it as reverse photobombing.




He even convinced Robert Pastorelli to strike a Sears Roebuck catalogue shot.

I was howling with laughter.

While he went about securing photos with every actor who had ever stepped foot on the ABC lot, I was busy relieving Disney of its massive quantities of bourbon. And it was on one of these frequent trips to the bar that I ran into Bill Maher, who in case you haven't guessed, is a lot shorter in real life.

I'm a big fan of Bill Maher.
I like his show.
And loved his movie Irreligious.

But at the time, Bill was not a fan of our Yellow campaign; and said as much to the press.

I like a good entanglement as much as the next fellow, but even more so when it comes to my work. So after some introductory niceties, Bill and I got into it. I had three inches of height and 50 lbs. on him, so we really got into it.

This was a long time ago and I'd love to quote you some of the witty repartee that went back and forth, but that dialogue is forever lost somewhere along the shores of the Knob Creek.

I could as I might have done in the past, fictionalize it, now with the advantage of hindsight and a sober mind. But that would be wrong.

Here's what I do remember.

The argument ended with Bill Maher loudly calling me an asshole.
And me, equally, if not louder, returning the favor.

Suffice to say, it was a magical night.


Some of you may not recognize today's celebrity.

She has the looks of any actress but made her name behind the scenes and never on the screens.

This is Jamie Tarses.

One time girlfriend to Mathew Perry.
And also one time President of the ABC Television Network.

I am forever indebted to Ms. Tarses for having the cajones to pull the trigger on our now famous/infamous ABC Yellow Campaign back in 1997. That bit of good fortune changed the trajectory of my career. And like so many other campaigns before it, could have easily died and never seen the light of day.

Working with Ms. Tarses and her boss Bob Iger -- who is now the CEO of Disney -- as well as her staff, including my friend Alan Cohen, was an education unto itself.

There, in the hallowed hallways of the American Broadcasting Company, we were introduced to the fascinating and often-slimy world of Network TV.

If you, my advertising colleagues, think our industry is dysfunctional, you should witness the Somali-type governance of a major broadcasting network. Each show was its own fiefdom, clawing for more production money and more network promos, often at the expense of their competition, the other shows.

Show runners and executives slithered through the hallways at the ABC corporate headquarters, with their backs against the drywall to protect against any unforeseen attacks.

For us, the agency guys, it was all different. Jamie Tarses and her crew looked forward to seeing us. At least it seemed that way.

We never had any hidden agendas. We just showed up with a bunch of billboards or some 30 second spots. And the criteria was painfully simple.

If the work made her laugh, it got produced.
If it didn't make her laugh, we'd go back to Playa Vista and make some more.

My partner John Shirley and I would often leave the Century City offices and high five each other. With one of us saying, "it'll never get any better than this."

Sadly we couldn't have been more prescient.

Thanks to this thing called social media I was able to contact one of the talented young art directors, Mark Cohen, who worked on our team. He graciously forwarded me a copy of an ad he did with a very talented writer, Maya Rao.

If memory serves this was also one of Ms. Tarses' favorite ads, it remains one of mine...


As I mentioned yesterday, the best projects are the ones touched by the least amount of people.

There shouldn't be too many cooks in the kitchen.
In fact there shouldn't be any.
Great food is prepared by a chef.

A skilled man or woman who knows the ingredients because he or she has picked them.
Knows the preparation, because he or she has done them.
And knows the results, because no one else was around to fuck things up.

I seem to have digressed.
Maybe I should have had someone help me write this post.

Years ago, a woman who used to work for me but who was now my boss, brought me in for a fun assignment. She and her partner had produced a campaign for Pedigree dog food that was simple, efficient and charming.

It was just a dog on a yellow syc, looking directly at the camera.

The viewer would hear the inner thoughts of the dog voiced by X-Files star David Duchovny. They had so much excess footage of dogs the Creative Directors thought why not churn out a dozen more extra spots?

The best news was these would be bonus spots. The client didn't ask for them, but the agency, showing some initiative, chose to over-deliver. Always a good strategy.

Moreover the scripts were just 15 seconds long. Just enough time to deliver the joke, the sell and the logo.

Duchovny came into the recording studio as if he just rolled out of bed. Disheveled, unshaven and yet completely professional. He nailed the sarcastic tone in one or two takes. Which was a blessing.

Because if it's one thing TV and film actors hate, it's taking direction from the no-talent sleaze bags who work in advertising -- that's me, and mostly likely you, thank you very much.

I wish there were more interesting things to say about David Duchovny, but there aren't. He was all business.

We did a dozen of these snarky snippy spots. Not one of them made it to air.

That's the odd thing. I like to think I can write funny. Some of you who read this blog think I can write funny. But clients, many it seems, are just not in the same boat.

Fuck 'em, it's their loss.

(please excuse the low resolution, I'm trying to recalibrate the flip-flaks)


Several months ago, my mate -- that's what English people like to be called -- rang me up on the telly and asked if I was available for a short gig.

Oddly enough, I was available, and since I enjoy working with and working for this chap, who we will just refer to as Shrek, I was more than happy to do the job.

He had just completed shooting a holiday commercial for his client Netflix. I will gladly post it here knowing that some of you less-attentive readers will come away from this thinking, "Siegel did that funny Treetopper spot." When in fact I had nothing to do with it.

However, you might recognize the voice of the TreeTopper as none other than Lorraine Bracco of Goodfellas fame and the more recent Sopranos.

Weeks after this holiday spot aired, thanks to signed NDA's I can't go into any detail, the Netflix folks wanted to have something for an internal meeting. And I was asked to help prepare a long form video.

Recognizing good work when I see it, I suggested reprising Lorraine's Treetopper character. Within hours we had a script -- a funny script -- written and approved.

Interesting how projects that are not on anybody's radar can be the most fun and the most painless. I swear ad agencies, clients and their slavish adherence to process and bureaucracy are their own worst enemies.

For obvious reasons I was looking forward to meeting Lorraine. And wanted to share all my stories about Northern New Jersey and the many Sopranos locations that were haunts of my teenage years.

The famed Bada Bing strip club on Route 17 in Paramus is an actual gentleman's club, though gentlemen is generally a term that is not recognized in the Garden State. I guess calling it a Gumba's Club didn't have the same panache.

In any case, the Bada Bing was real. And has gone by several names including CandyLand and Satin Dolls.

I know this because my buddies and I spent enough money there to replace the unmentionably-stained pleatherette couches in the Whisper Room.

But meeting Lorraine was not to be. She was stuck in the Hamptons and the voiceover recording all took place over a digital phone patch. And in case you're wondering, she was charming, salty and authentic NY through and through.

Was I disappointed?
You bet I was.

My plan was to get out my iPhone and snap a picture of myself and Lorraine Bracco, who played Dr. Jennifer Melfi, Tony Soprano's therapist.

Then I would have posted the picture of her and I right here on the blog and cleverly called it a Smelfie.

Get it? Selfie + Melfi = Smelfie.

Ahhhhh, maybe it's just as well.

A little housekeeping before we begin today's post.

If you were reading Roundseventeen last month, and it appears many of you were, there were several themed weeks in April.

We kicked off the month with Advertising Week which dovetailed nicely into Tits & Ass Week. The results were quite astonishing.

April saw 10,890 hits, a new web traffic record. And significantly more, 2,590 more, than the previous high mark of 8500 set in March of 2014.


My math skills aren't what they used to be and my daughter won't let me borrow her $200 Texas Instruments calculator, but I believe that's an increase of more than 4,821%, with a 3% margin for error.

Which can only mean one of two things.

Some pornbot in Burma has my blog listed on their bukakke page.

Or this theme week thing is getting traction.

So today, we begin Celebrity Week -- a hazy recounting of my numerous but very brief work encounters with Hollywood's A-listers.

First up, Owen Wilson.

Years ago, I was freelancing at TBWA Chiat/Day, my old alma mater from the halcyon days of 1997. Energizer batteries had cooked up some marketing symbiotic deal with Disney and the release of the next Cars movie.

The deal allowed us to do a spot with Owen Wilson as the voice of one of the cars. What that had to do with Energizer's Double AA lithium batteries was beyond me.

But that's where copywriting and the ability to spin gold out of the fibrous material in the turds excreted by marketing committees comes in to play.

Frankly I think these co-op commercials are a scam foisted upon junior ad agency media buyers. The movie folks get free TV exposure and the ad agencies walk away deluding themselves that there will be some halo effect on their low-interest packaged goods.

In any case, Owen showed up at the recording studio in the middle of the afternoon. I'm thinking there was a little 'waking and baking' going on earlier that morning.

He was upbeat, friendly and wore a perpetual smile. The kind of perpetual smile you expect on Owen Wilson.

What struck me most about Owen's arrival at the recording studio was the effect he had on all the single women. Before he even opened the front door, the place was thick with feminine pheromones.

I watch enough nature shows on National Geographic to recognize the phenomena. It was like a herd of does in heat.

Owen would pass by the kitchen and the young ladies would start whispering.

Owen entered the recording studio and the account girls would start snapping photo's with their iPhones.

Owen finished the recording and got back to his car in the parking lot and every woman in the building went outside to wave goodbye.

And yet, two months after our recording session there were rumors that Owen Wilson attempted suicide.

Suicide?

But in hindsight it all makes sense. Imagine walking through life knowing that each and every woman on the street would gladly and unhesitatingly avail herself to you. And then because of marriage commitments, work schedules or life's other distractions, you were simply not able to follow through on these numerous and completely random amorous offers.

That would depress me.

I understand your pain Owen. I've lived here long enough and know that being eye candy in this town is a burden I would not wish on anybody.


In countries throughout the world, this is a day to honor Labor. The working men and women who farm the fields, build the machines, pick the crops, forge the iron and write the advertising copy that fuels the engine of capitalism.

Not coincidentally it's also the day all high school seniors must make the official college selection.

In other words, students must decide where the fruits of their parent's labor will be directed and siphoned off for the next 4 years.

Like thousands of others, my daughter has also made her choice. After gaining acceptance to prestigious schools like Syracuse, Marquette, Temple and Gonzaga, and a yearlong process that has all but consumed the Siegel household, she has opted for UW, the University of Washington.

Naturally, we couldn't be prouder, it's an excellent school with a premium on scholarship.

We couldn't be happier, they have a great football and basketball team.

We couldn't be more excited, Seattle is beautiful and the Pacific Northwest with its mountains, islands, and refreshing rains is a great place to visit.

And as all parents of college students will tell you, we also couldn't be filled with more anticipation.

Paying for this educational extravaganza promises to sap the Siegel portfolio and guarantee Deb and I two dirty cots at the Shady Hills Warehouse for the Almost-Dead but Certainly-Destitute Retirement Home.

How can I be so sure of our inevitable financial demise?

Because next year, on May 1st, 2015, my other daughter will decide which college she will be attending.



Last week I did something I usually don't do.

I said something nice about a colleague.

I don't make a habit of passing out compliments. Or gushing over mediocrity. I'm not given to exaggerated exuberance. Particularly when it comes to advertising. From what I can see there's enough workmanlike work out there we don't need to shower it with undue praise.

Everything is not awesome. In fact very little is awesome.
And I refuse to state otherwise.

This is just a longwinded way of saying I don't kiss ass. Even though I've had the privilege of working with giants of the industry whose ass's, one could argue, were well worth kissing.

Still, I never indulged. And to this day continue to refrain.

Others, nameless people who have long since stopped reading this blog, have made a Career of it.

Sycophancy is part of their skill set. It's right there on linkedin.com, next to Account Management, Brand Stewardship and Digital Proficiency (insert joke here).

Some are so adept in this dubious arena, they have ridden their knack for nosing up the anal cavity straight to the C-Suite. Or even higher.

They flatter.
They fawn.
Their servility knows no bounds.

They have equity.
I have dignity.

As a 44-year old man who has spent considerable time languishing on the middle rungs of corporate management, I have seen my fair share of obsequious behavior.

And while it may be too late for me to change my obstinate ways, there's still time for many of you to hone your hole-polishing skills and breath the rarefied air of the Mutual Admiration Society.

You simply have to know the do's and don'ts.


Don't say:

"This brief is confusing, chock full of contradiction and muddy at best."

Do say:

"We're going to London for vacation, can you recommend a pub?"


Don't say:

"Why are we doing focus group?"

Do say:

"It's amazing that we can see them through the glass but they can't see us."


Don't say:

"No."

Don't even say:

"Yes."

Do say:

"I was hoping you'd ask for a banner ad and a brand engagement unit."

This may look like a bowl of dog food.
But to me, it's more.

The fact that it has been sitting in the bowl, untouched for more than 30 minutes, means my Nellie isn't feeling well. And hasn't for a while now.

Two weeks ago, she started vomiting (my second post about hurling in a week). Her temperature had spiked -- I know this because, despite living in a house with three women and their alleged maternal instincts, I had to stick the digital thermometer in her butt.

She also stopped eating.

A fortnight has passed and now Nellie is shy one gall bladder. And I'm shy a few thousand dollars.

She's home now, resting in her own bed. And for the past 5 days, I've been jamming pills down her throat and administering injections and subcutaneous IV fluids. For someone who is incredibly squeamish and can't sit through a Quinton Tarantino movie with both eyes open, this is a remarkable achievement.

But for all my Herculean/Nightinggale type efforts, she is still not feeling well.

I know this from all the non-verbal communication.

From how she looks at me, with brown eyes that were once clear, but are now cloudy and blue.

From the way she strains to get out of bed and rest her head on my lap. Leaning into me for comfort in a way my daughters no longer do.

From the way she latches on to my wrist and won't let me pull away after petting her.

The nails dig into my forearm but I don't budge an inch.

I know all this from the two spoonfuls of high-protein, low-fat gastrointestinal food that still sits in her bowl.

And taunts me. Making her pain, my pain.

If I thought it would make her feel better, I'd bend down on all fours and eat that brown gelatinous slop.

Last year, the band Led Zeppelin, of bombastic supergroup fame, was honored at the Kennedy Arts Memorial.

President Obama was there.
And Heart, the female rock duo of the 70's, played an incredible rendition of Stairway to Heaven.

It had Jimmy Page in tears.
And it had some of the military generals muttering, "damn long hair hippies."

Watching the tribute took me back to the summer of 1980. When my buddies and I nabbed four tickets to see Zeppelin at an outdoor stadium in Philadelphia.

Mind you, this was before the Internet and ticket brokers and Stub Hub and all that nonsense.

Scoring tickets to a big show, and at the time they didn't get any bigger than Led Zeppelin, required knowing a guy who knew another guy who could possibly, maybe, get his hands on some tickets but it meant a trip to the sketchy parts of Camden to retrieve them.

Picture Damone from Fast Times at Ridgemont High, only the dealer's name was Tyrone.
And instead of a cute cap, he had half a fro.
The other half of his head was impaled with an odd comb.
And in his waistband he had his two skilled partners, Smith and Wesson, who helped "negotiate" the price.

Good times.

But the ordeal was all for naught.

On the day we were scheduled to see Zepellin from our appropriately labelled Seats ZZ 17, ZZ 18, ZZ 19, and ZZ 20, in the uppermost level of the stadium just below the 1000 degree halogen lamps, the band was in Northern England laying their legendary drummer John Bonham to rest for his eternal dirt nap.

Bonham liked his drink. And a week before the concert he liked it a little too much, eventually drowning in his own vomit.

Short of being discovered with an object up your butt, foreign or otherwise, I can't think of a more ignominious way to go.

So we never saw Led Zeppelin perform live. But, I was fortunate enough to see many of the great bands of that era, including: Pink Floyd, The Rolling Stones, The Kinks, Santana, the Grateful Dead, Yes, The Allman Brothers, Jackson Browne, Bonnie Raite, and many more.

I mention all this because last week my daughter returned home from Coachella, where she spent two days in the blistering desert heat listening to bands I've never heard of. Hipster, flighty bands whose music will not stand the test of time. And who will never find themselves standing next to the President at the Kennedy Arts Center.

Maybe I'm wrong.
I was wrong once in 1998, it could happen again.

Only time will tell.
So ten years from now let's see what happens to the following musical luminaries:

The Crotch Monkeys
Cheese for Motor Oil
Truncated Apostrophe
The Woozy Woos
Needle Nose Plier
Broken Lens Cap
Purple Eclair
Five Legged Donkey
Missing Gear
Skidmark
Mumford & Sons


I love this photo.

It was snapped by a local photographer using some time-lapse thig-a-majig that's way too technical for this Luddite.

I do know it was taken from a hilly knoll in El Segundo that is favorited by plane-o-philes like myself.

Not sure why I love planes, particularly since I hate flying. And hate is an understatement. Before I can fly anywhere I need to make a trip to the local pharmacy. And if I'm going oversees I usually have to cop some illegal stuff from a guy in the alley behind the Rite-Aid.

Also, I can't sleep while flying.

I always picture some emergency in the cockpit and a crew member calling for any volunteer to help pilot the craft. I know nothing of aeronautics but I've watched enough movies and played some aerial combat video games, and feel confident I could come through in a pinch.

When I was a staffer forced to take business trips, my partner John Shirley would always check the turbulence forecast on his laptop. Then, to bust my balls while downing my double shot of Jack Daniels, he would announce…

"Oh man look at those winds. Those are wing-rippers!"

Like I said, I hate flying.

But I love planes.

Which makes my current work environment so damn pleasing.

You see I'm about a 1/2 mile down the road from the aforementioned knoll in El Segundo. I'm seven stories up. And while I'm not sitting in a private office, I'm in a pretty quiet semi-secluded cubicle, with a similar, if not better, view of the LAX runways.

I shot this in between writing some banner ads for a local colonic clinic.



Not sure the iPhone does it justice. But I will tell you the sight of something as large as a cruise ship lifting off the ground never ceases to amaze. Especially when the big birds, the 747's and the 777's take all of the runway and nose up just before cresting over the hill and the Pacific Ocean.

It all brings up a point about offices, seating arrangements and negotiations with ad agencies.

I've made myself clear about communal work tables on several occasions. There's no need to repeat myself. But I do advise anyone jumping ship or considering a new job offer to bring up the seating arrangements.

Where you sit for 8 or 10 or 12 hours a day is important. It affects how you feel. And ultimately how you work.

Ignore it and it's like getting stuck in a crappy, bed-bug infested hotel room wedged between the squeaky elevator and the rattling ice machine.

God and I haven't been speaking lately.

And by lately, I mean for the past thirty some odd years.

Ever since I learned that he willfully ignored the pleas of 6 million of my people who were being tortured, raped, brutalized and gassed to death in camps throughout Eastern Europe, but saw fit to help Alabama crush Auburn in a very important football game. And to clear the path for some pious beauty queen in search of a crown at some meaningless pageant.

So we're not talking.
And it would take more than a winning Powerball ticket to mend that relationship.

My secularism is growing more militant by the minute. Today my beef is with people who love and worship this God with the obviously misplaced priorities.

You know, a friend of my enemy is not my friend.
Or some variation of the transitive law.

I would have no quarrel with these folks if they went about their God business and left others alone. But that's not how it works, is it?

Those who fear God and love God and have a personal relationship with God are so eager to trot out their tired tropes they have all but invited some push back.

The Supreme Court is currently hearing a case brought by Hobby Lobby and their proprietors, the Green family. It's all about God and who God thinks should be eligible for health insurance.

The Greens are very religious people and don't want to be forced to pay for "objectionable" healthcare for their employees.

I'm sure the Greens also have a host of problems with homosexuals, Christ-deniers (Jews and Muslims) and people who watch Neil Degrasse Tyson's Cosmos. Fortunately none of those disinclinations have reached litigation.

Yet.

In addition to their lawsuit in the highest court of the land, the Greens are seeking to introduce a forced bible study program  into the public school system.

Like I said, religious people aren't happy until they impose their beliefs on everybody else. Even us Darwinists.

But I wonder if with all this proselytizing, the Greens could use a little biblical refresher course.

For one thing, Hobby Lobby is open on Saturday.


Saturday, in case David Green forgot, is the Sabbath.
It's the one my tribe observes.
And the one Jesus observed.
You know, until we killed him.


As we can see in this picture, David Green is wearing a cotton shirt and a wool blazer. I hate to point what could be viewed as a bit of hypocrisy but that's a no-no and a clear violation of Leviticus 19:19: neither shall there come upon thee a garment of linen mixed with wool.

I find it just a little disturbing that the Lord would be more concerned with our wardrobe choices and less concerned about people killing each other in Syria, Sudan, Iraq, etc.

But maybe that's just me.

Finally, are we to believe that the Greens, who are self-admitted strict adherents of both the Old Testament and the New Testament, have lived by the dietary laws set forth in Leviticus?

And never eaten a cheeseburger? Or an Easter Ham? Or enjoyed the fleshy, buttery, crustacean goodness only available at America's premier casual dining restaurant?


Sorry Mr. Green, if I may paraphrase the Red Lobster tagline...

We see God differently.


Yesterday I plugged a competitor's blog.

Today I'm plugging a former copywriter's business  .

Her name is Pam Barsky. I met Pam a long, long, long time ago. We were both students at the Carson/Roberts Creative Workshop -- names that will mean nothing to today's generation of copywriters and art directors.

(Other meaningless names include Bill Bernbach, Jay Chiat, and Howard Gossage.)

For some reason, Pam was disillusioned by the ad game. It defies all reason, but she found it demoralizing, stifling and riddled with political ass nuggets.

So she did what few of us do, she got out.

And started a boutique in the tony neighborhood between Beverly Hills and West Hollywood. Selling bags. For some reason women need bags. And lots of them. These are not just bags. Each features a pithy headline/slogan/theme, if you will.

She turned her ability to string a few clever words together into a venture that made the sales register ring.

Is that jealousy you detect? You're damn right it is.

Her business thrived so she packed up and did what few sane Californians do, she moved to NYC, the vortex of the Polar Vortex. Now dozens, maybe hundreds, maybe thousands of Gothamites are tooling around the city with Pam's creativity in full display.

She doesn't have to water anything down.
She doesn't need client approval.
And she gets to write whatever the fuck she wants.

It's sort of like this blog, only she makes money at it.

Pam was kind enough to send me some of her handiwork. I promised her a picture of both my daughters with two of her bags. But after a recent spat about college choices, my oldest daughter isn't speaking to me.

Not only do I suck at developing an exit plan from advertising, I'm not so good at this fatherhood thing either.

You'll never hear the people at Dr. Pepper telling you to drink Pepsi.
Or Coke.

Why would they?

Why would a tiny venture send their paying customers to one of the big boys?
It makes no sense.
And yet that is exactly what I am doing today.

The man pictured above is Bob Hoffman. He is older than me. More successful than me. And, believe it or not, has more hair than me. His blog also brings in about a million more readers than mine.

So why am I, the Dr. Pepper of advertising blogs sending you across the street for a Big Gulp of Hoffman's Old Time Curmudgeony Goodness ?

Because several weeks ago Bob did a speaking engagement at the European Advertising Week Symposium and let loose with 45 minutes of master debunkery.




The video only has 10,000 hits but deserves 100,000 more.

He rails.
He opines.
He breaks out the facts and tears digital ninjas a new digital ninja asshole.

It's a delicious social media smack down.

What I like most about the speech is how uncomfortable the host/presenter/moderator is about letting Hoffman have his day.

He's hesitant and reluctant at the beginning of the talk. He is also sure that Bob is about to shoot himself in the foot with this audience of young ad kind.

Confident that these twenty somethings will send Bob back across the pond with a scarlet letter of shame, at the end of the talk he invites the audience to demonstrate their disapproval. But they don't.

In fact they side with Bob.

Proving Hoffman's point that even the bullshitters, ad people, are tired of peddling this social media bullshit.

Still not convinced?
Maybe you don't have time to watch his entire speech?
Fair enough.
Watch this video , also borrowed from adcontrarian, and tell me we all don't deserve a welt-making smack across the face with the Reality Stick.


Much as it might surprise you, I don't dwell on the traffic numbers or the Google Analytics for this site. For one thing the accuracy is a bit questionable.

My Google Analytics chart shows traffic dating back as far as April 2007.

Which is curious, since I started this blog in March of 2009.

The other reason I don't trust the numbers is I don't have to.

It's only good if I were to sell R17 to some large media conglomerate and as of today I have fielded zero inquiries about that.

The numbers would also come into play if I were to start monetizing or putting up display advertising on the site. But I don't want to do that to my 13 faithful readers.

Plus it would only net me about 38 cents every week.

But upon further inspection, I did notice something very interesting about the data.


Ukraine, the scene of civil unrest and currently torn between its desire to enter NATO and its centuries old bonds to the Motherland, is one of the Top Ten Countries for Round Seventeen readership.

Even more surprising, Russia comes in at a shocking #2.

My ancestors come from all over Eastern Europe, they basically ran to where ever the Gestapo or the Cossacks weren't.

So I really don't have a dog in this fight. Though my sentiments are always with the underdog.

But I can't help wondering where all this Eastern readership stems from.

Either some long lost relatives who escaped the Nazi genocide have discovered their prodigious American cousin or these shtetl-dwelling, potato-eating, vodka-imbibers have a preternatural affinity for my particular brand of snark.


Sir Winston Churchill once famously said, "You have enemies? Good. That means you stood up for something, sometime in your life."

Those of you who know me or those of you who read this blog with any regularity will not be surprised to find I have enemies. Resulting, as Sir Winston put it, from my repeated and often vociferous stands on a host of topics.

In the advertising world, I have railed against slimy politics, groupthink, appeasement, pretentious affectation, even communal office furniture. And while this has earned me a small measure of respect in some circles, it has also cast me as some stubborn, pigheaded purist in others.

Sadly, it's members of those latter circles that tend to rise up the corporate ladder. And gain the ear of those in power. This is usually achieved through back-office obstructionism and silky smooth sycophancy.

"Hey Rich, I spoke with our CEO and he agrees with me, we should give the client what he is asking for. Can we see something by Wednesday? Cheers, mate."

This in essence forms the dividing line in many advertising agencies.

There are the Ad Makers, those who come up with the ideas that alter the business landscape and vault clients into the stratosphere.

And then there are the Ad Fakers, those who abuse the people who come up with the ideas. Showboat. Steal credit.  And earn ungodly sums of money simply because they can pull off wearing Capri pants and know the right champagne to order at Cannes.

Is it fair?
Of course it's not fair.

If advertising were fair, CEO's would not be taking home 4,000 times as much as the mailroom clerk.

If advertising were fair, tone deaf one percenters at agencies would be forbidden from posting Facebook pictures of their new cars, new houses and new $800 Manolo Blahniks.

If advertising were fair, layoffs would not be so prevalent because upper management would have the foresight to set some money aside for inevitable down cycles.

The good news is that even advertising abides by the wisdom of another famous Brit and must adhere to Newton's Laws of Physics.

Namely, for every action there is an equal and opposite reaction.

And while karma doesn't come around as often as most of us would like, recently it took a big fat public steaming dump on a chap who has a PHd. in smugness and a black belt in asswipery.

For some reason this unnamed malignant faker still draws a paycheck, but my spidey sense tells me the pendulum is starting to swing in the direction of the makers.

in any case, it made for some very tasty schadenfreud.
very tasty, indeed.

Money, money, money

(It's All Titillation Week, Day 2. For a fuller explanation, see yesterday's posting.)

Today, I'd like to talk about a topic that rarely gets talked about: money.
It rarely gets talked about because we've all been told NOT to talk about it.

Because we don't talk about it, I have no idea how my net worth stands up against my friend's net worth. Or my coworkers, my relatives or even my neighbors.

I have no way of keeping a scorecard. A man needs a scorecard.

I don't know if I can ease up on the gas pedal or slam it to the floor so I don't end up in a dirty nursing home under the sloppy care of Raul, the loose-change stealing orderly.

I'm so unversed on the topic of money that everything I have learned about wealth and the acquisition of wealth comes from the Parker Brothers.

It all comes from Monopoly.

Years ago, my wife and I found ourselves with two mortgages.

One on the house where we are raising our two daughters and another on a crappy little condo in south Culver City or North LAX-adjacent. We had, as my uncle coins it, fallen into the business of 'Tenants and Terlets.'

Only this additional property was not Broadway or Park Place. It wasn't even the desirable greens or reds. Our 2 BR flophouse in Fox Hills was more the equivalent of the cheap purplish properties that frankly no respectable Monopoly player wants to own.

Before renting it out, we interviewed many candidates including an older African American couple with a 14-year old son. The mom was sick and the dad had been unemployed for more than 5 years. They were on Section 8 Federal assistance. Their credit score wasn't low. They didn't even have one.

Not the ideal candidates by any stretch.

A day after meeting them, we received a handwritten 3-page letter begging us for the apartment. Naturally I was reluctant. But my wife -- who many people refer to as a saint, for obvious reasons --  convinced me it would be a mitzvah.

Turned out, doing good by them, did well by us. Section 8 was a blessing in disguise.

Every first of the month we got a check from Uncle Sam for 99.9% of the rent. It was so automatic it became very easy for me to let the tenants slide into arrears for 6 or 7 months. Their share never amounted to more than a couple of hundred bucks. And they were very sweet people who took great care of the property.

The point is, making money as a land baron is a lot easier than making money as a copywriter. So when the ad agency world finally discovers that I'm just a fraud, and they will, I'll have my landlord career to fall back on.

Where is all this leading? Well, several weeks ago, my daughter went on a camping spiritual retreat with her high school classmates. They went to rediscover their relationship with Jesus. My daughter went for the smores. When they returned there was a welcoming reception reuniting the parents with their born-again children.

At the party I had a chance to corner the Principal of St. Monica's Catholic High School. I told him the Monopoly anecdote I just told you. I also suggested the school look into ways of developing a formalized curriculum of financial education.

He agreed the students and many of the teachers knew little or nothing about banking, checking, mortgages, the stock market or even mutual funds. He said he'd run the idea by the monsignor.

Monsignor: "Oh really, which parent came up with this novel, yet-completely-unfeasible idea?"

Principal: "The Jew." (I'm positive that's how they refer to me.)

Monsignor: "Mmmmm, on second thought…."

Recently, my former boss Steve Rabosky said I should commit more time to writing about advertising.

Last week I took him up on his suggestion and committed 5 days of blogging to nothing but our beloved and sometimes hated industry.

I chose quite the week to do it as well because there were tectonic shifts right here in the Southern California ad market.

In any case the stunt was a bounding success. Sending Round Seventeen traffic through the roof and hitting all kinds of new peaks. Ending with Friday's posting that featured a half-naked woman and a nipple-grabbing boiled lobster, the best kind.

To that end, and taking our cue from the NY Post and the London Sun Times, postings this week will all feature photos of scantily clad women.

I had some luck finding a picture today and I am confident, through rigor and determination, that I will be able to locate similar puerile pics for the upcoming posts.

In addition to kicking off All Titillation Week, today is also Passover.

So let's switch gears. From mammaries to matzos.


The producers of the Noah's Ark movie have been receiving all kinds of flack because their film does not adhere to the original screenplay authored by God. And Shane Black. Yet no one has raised a peep over God's earlier bibler, the Ten Commandments.

Here, we must focus our attention not on the film  but at the original Passover story and its many, many faults.

I think it's clear that when God was done with the first draft, he should have optioned it to the studio and let the script doctors do a total rewrite. Because as it stands now, the Passover yarn is a complete sham.

First off, it starts out way too slow.
400 years of slavery and bondage.
Talk about a yawner for an opening.

Nothing happens for two hours and then Moses starts talking to a burning rhododendron. A bush?

Where does that character development go?
Why couldn't it be a three-legged talking goat?
Or a sassy donkey?
Or a cat that thinks he's a pirate?
Has God even seen Shrek?

OK, the plagues.

Ten plagues for Christ's sake! Why not three? There's an age-old magic symmetry to three. Plus, this God character is the Master of the Universe, the King of Kings,  Lord over everything from Pacoima to Pluto and the best he can do is whip up some frogs and locusts?
How about some meteorites?
Tsunami waves?
And I know this is often repeated, but what the hell is murrain?

Finally, and this is where the story loses all kinds of credibility, are we to believe that it took an act, or eleven boring acts, of God to convince the Pharaoh to let my people go?

I've sat in living rooms, dining rooms, and oneg shabbat rooms at the back of the Temple, my entire life. I know about the kvetching, the griping and the sending of the cold soup back to the kitchen.

I can say with no small amount of Hebraic certitude that Pharaoh would not put up with this tsuris for 45 minutes, much less 400 years.

If I were the Egyptian Sun God and Moses told me his people wanted to leave, I would have helped him wrap up the ruggelah and the kreplach and personally escorted he and his yappy tribe of yentas across the Red Sea.


(This is a special bonus Friday posting in celebration of our All Advertising Week. As you might know there's nothing I enjoy more than being right. Well, yesterday Adweek announced that Red Lobster was holding an agency review . Just as they did three years ago. To that end, I'm ending the week with a reprint of a previous R17 posting. Or, if you'd like you can read this as a preview of a posting that will go up three years from now.)

Last week it was announced that Darden, the operator of many family restaurant chains like Olive Garden and Longhorn Steakhouse, was putting the Red Lobster account up for review. Sales had been falling, franchisee's were getting unhappy and the advertising had gotten stale.

Cue the eager agency contenders.

I know from experience, weekends will be sacrificed in the pursuit of this crown jewel of advertising. People will work long hours. Couches will get slept on. Cold coffee will get nuked. And strategies will be constructed, deconstructed and put before the knowing eye of focus groups.

Backs will get stabbed. Inter-office jockeying will occur. And new office romances will bloom, fed by the aphrodisiacal aromas of stale pizza and 11 PM body odor.

At the end of the review process, an agency will be selected, champagne will be uncorked and a brand-spanking new Red Lobster campaign will be foisted on the crustacean-hungry masses...

Open on hot melted butter drizzled over freshly steamed lobster tail.

Cut to tight shot of tongs placing lobster tail on a beautifully-dressed dinner plate.

Cut to steam rising off the fluffy mashed potatoes.

Cut to dinner roll being cracked in half.

Cut to extreme slow motion shot of flakes flying off the dinner roll.

Cut to beet red lobster tail shell being cracked open.

Cut to man wearing khaki pants, with extremely white teeth, biting into said lobster and smiling.

Cut to khaki pants man's wife, she is smiling too.

ANNCR: Right now during Red Lobster Red Tag Dining Days, you can get our signature lobster tail, mashed potatoes and your choice of farm fresh vegetable for only $9.99. Come on in now, we'll start melting the butter just for you.

End on beauty shot of dinner plate.

Starburst: Red Tag Dining Days. Just $9.99

Art Card: Red Lobster. Who's in the mood for Tail?

Mental masturbation

I won't beat around the bush.

When it comes to ad agency Planning, I don't get it.
Newsflash, I don't ever plan to get it.

I don't want to offend anyone, but in the twenty plus years --oh shit, now it's twenty five plus years --I've been in the business I have never depended on the Planning Department, and whatever it is they do, to inch me any closer to a creative solution.

Not once.
Ever.
Never.

And I have been forced to sit through thousands of Planning Department briefings.

In the automotive world, I've heard the word "luxury" dissected 18 ways 'til Sunday.

In the technology world, "innovation" has been picked over like a dead water buffalo under the Serengeti sun.

Once, while pitching Sparklett's water, our MBA-enhanced Planner with the grating British accent graced us with his business acumen and told us the strategy was all about "Blue." (This can be corroborated by several R17 readers.)

By the way, Blue was the result of a two month-long 'deep dive' and a five-city tour of focus groups that I believe included a trip to the planner's home town of West Kensington.

Years ago I was at an unnamed ad agency eavesdropping -- thank you open office plan -- in on a group of unnamed account planners and unnamed account executives talking about a unnamed brand of tortilla chips.

Personally, I don't see how a briefing about a low-interest tortilla chip could merit a meeting lasting more than 3 minutes, but this one went on longer than the Wolf of the Wall Street.

The ensuing question/answer/further discussion period was like an aural root canal.

"People like sharing tortilla chips."

"The spots should be about the _________ Tortilla Chip Moments."

"We need a tortilla chip manifesto."

Cue the sound of creative people rethinking their career choice.

And yet the inanity continues.

As you are reading this rather-restrained rant, there are conference rooms chock full of creatives who have just presented their ideas to a bunch of over-critical, over-thinking Planners, who are over-zealously picking it apart and measuring the work against some insipid set-in-stone briefing document.

As sure as the mustache under my nose, some 26-year old ex-sorority girl with a certificate in planning and two years of real world living, is chiming in with the ubiquitous:

"I like it. And I don't want to split hairs, maybe it's in the semantics, but (and here comes the phrase that kills all good ideas) I'm not sure it's on-strategy."

To which, just once, I wish one ballsy staff creative would simply rise to the occasion, stand up and reply:

"Maybe, the strategy is off-strategy."

Weeks ago a reader complained that my arguments would carry more water if I weren't so disdainful of younger people, what they wear, how they work and the "jewelry" with which they choose to adorn their body.

But, I'm 44 and approaching middle age.
It's my job to disparage those with so much energy, so little wisdom and so many misguided sartorial decisions.

Besides I find it hard to hide my disdain for their budding advertising careers. Not so much for what they are doing in advertising, although there's plenty of grist for the mill there. It's more about how they got into advertising.

Somebody -- the holding companies -- is holding the door open for them.

It wasn't like that when I came up through the ranks.
Not by a long shot.

You could't get a job as a copywriter unless you had experience.
And you couldn't get experience, unless you were a copywriter.

There were no Young Gun programs.
Or agencies hiring cubbie copywriters, as they did in the 60's and 70's.
If you wanted a job as a junior you had to fight off the competition like some fast swimming sperm with the strongest tail and the best package of chromosomes.

I did what many fellow 44-year olds did.

Instead of going straight into the big time, I spent a few years in the D league.
The Farm System.
The Minors.

I got a job writing recruitment ads. Recruitment ad agencies were eager to hire any writer who could string together a few words. Particularly if they knew the difference between it's and its, your and you're, as well as their and there.

There are many "professional copywriters" today, stewarding billion-dollar brands, who don't.

Recruitment advertising was not easy work. There are not that many ways to say, "We offer a challenging work environment with competitive salaries and benefits."

That never dissuaded my boss, a squat, chain-smoking, Napoleonic man with all the manners of a feral pig, from taking a red pen to my work and sending me back to my desk for more options.

This didn't happen once a day. It happened 15-20 times a day. Recruitment ad agencies don't get hired on the basis of their creativity. It's all about volume. Excuse me, Volume.

It wasn't glamorous.
Or fun.
Or inspiring.
In fact, I'd argue it was 180 degrees from all of the above.

And I didn't do it for a month. Or a year. Or even two years. I churned out that bird cage lining for 2 & 1/2 painful years. But the experience was invaluable.

Kids today seemed to have leap-frogged over this kind of hardship. They waltz out of college with their  Vines, their case studies and their fake ads for glow-in-the-dark condoms, and walk into an ad agency expecting to be wooed and handed a gym membership and a generous car allowance.

So how did I unshackle myself from the recruitment ad agency world and break into the big time?

For that, let's go to a sample spec ad from the Siegel Humility Files…

Go ahead enlarge the picture.

That is the face of Lee Clow, The Bearded One.
As well as the face of a Pacific Chinook Salmon, The Scaly One.

Why, you may ask, are they on the same page?
In which case you'd be missing the greater point -- they're on a page.

A printed page.

The year was 1998 and Lee Clow had just been named WSAAA leader of the year. To honor him, the WSAAA, Western States Advertising Agency Association, was throwing a gala dinner at the Regent Beverly Wilshire. Since my art director John Shirley and I were the Flavors of the Month for a short five minutes, we were asked to come up with an invite for the event.

Fortunately, this was before the advent of the cheap e-vite or e-mail blasts.

Yes, those are cheaper ways of communicating.
But, and I can't stress this enough, those are cheaper ways of communicating.

You can call me old school but you'd better say it loudly, 'cause the hair in my ear is getting thicker by the day, but an invite to a black tie event should be a printed piece.

On thick stock.

Something you can share with co-workers.

"Check this out, it's Lee Clow and a Salmon."

Here it is in all its glory:


If you were holding this in your hand you could fold it out and easily read all the little captions instead of trying to enlarge the html, find the zoom-in tool and mouse across the timeline.

And that's the problem with advertising today.
There's no tactility.

Fortunately, for you, I've taken the liberty of breaking it down to smaller components.




I'm sure when we presented the invite ideas there were two to three other concepts in the mix. You never went to Clow with just one idea in your pocket. He needed to have choices. I'm glad Lee has a penchant for self-deprecation and chose this odd bird.

Not only because it gave us a chance to get in front of every important professional in the Los Angeles advertising community.

It also gave us the self-serving opportunity to cement our work (the ABC campaign) among the select legendary campaigns that built the Chiat/Day legend.

Moreover, and this cannot be overstated, it gave us a glorious four-color platform to put a picture of advertising icon Lee Clow next to a dead flash-frozen fish.

The Complaint Department at Round Seventeen was working overtime last week.

Many readers took issue with my April Fool's Day prank. Wherein I threatened/promised to pull the plug on this blogfoolery. The tone was not all pleasing.

"How dare you stop writing a complementary daily blog that I enjoy everyday free of charge with no subscription fee and no annoying banners that are so often seen on lesser websites which much greater traffic?"

As if that were not enough, later in the week I penned a lengthy piece regarding the Arab League and their blind theocratic march towards the Dark Ages.

To which one reader, a former boss of mine, responded (verbatim):

"You're much funnier when you write about the fucked up business of advertising."

A passive/aggressive accolade if I've ever heard one. One of the short-tempered interns in the Complaint Department urged me to send that reader a cake.


But instead, I have uncharacteristically decided to take the high ground.

I'm happy to announce this week will be about advertising. And nothing but advertising. I've even enlisted the aid of my wife who will serve as editor, making sure I don't overstep my boundaries, name names or otherwise dig myself a career hole I can't get out of.

This thematic endeavor may seem highly unusual, but in fact it is not. We have done series here before.

Regular readers will remember the Things Jews Don't Do collection.

There was also Celebrities I Have Worked With.

In 2012, there was the Swiftian monthly series People We Need To Kill.

There was even the two-week anthology Why Rich Siegel Is The World's Greatest Lover. Not surprisingly, it didn't last two weeks and turned out to be a bit of an over-promise.

Great, you might be thinking, what advertising legend are you going to cut down to size today?
Are you going to skewer the bloated bureaucracies?
The irrationality of focus groups?
The deification of all things digital?

Come on Rich, lay some brutal honesty and common man wisdom on those greedy penny-pinching, money-hoarding, yacht-buying holding companies.

I'm sorry, but today's posting is done.This was more like a teaser of things to come.

If you don't like it, you're more than welcome to direct any correspondence to our always-attentive and always-responsive R17 Complaint Department.


A few weeks ago, it rained in Southern California.

For the rest of the country, pounded by snow, hail and sleet, this would not raise an eyebrow. But here, where the hills are brown and firemen are at a constant DefCon 5, rain is big news.

Even the possibility of rain is big news. A thunder cloud in Morro Bay, 250 miles north of LA, will send the local weathermen scurrying for the hair gel products and some last minute promos.

"Is rain in the forecast? Tune in at eleven (followed by a fist pump)."

And it works.

Local news stations see their ratings spike on just the hint of any possible precipitation.

The Storm of the Century turned out to be a little more than 2 inches of rain. My gutters got clogged. But unfortunately there's no FEMA money in clogged gutters.

Others didn't fare so well.

Like this boat owner.
I should say previous boat owner, because this one was a total wreck.



Not sure my photographs tell the whole picture, but this is a big boat.
Was a big boat.

It had a state room, a kitchen and a sunning deck. There might be more nautical terms, but I'm a confirmed landlubber. I get seasick on a porch swing.

You don't see a sight like this everyday in Playa del Rey, so naturally it conjures up a mystery. How did it get here, springs to mind.

Marina del Rey, where boaters typically dock, is a just few hundred yards away.

Oh sure, it might have been a shoddy Buntline Hitch Knot.

Or a poorly executed Halyard Cleat Hitch.

But I'm going to go out on a limb and suggest it might have something to do with alcohol.

" Isn't it great being out here without our nagging wives?"

SFX: BOYS BEING BOYS GROUP LAUGHTER

"Did you get the anchor, Steve?"

"One Anchor Steam coming right up."

I hope I didn't alienate too many of you with yesterday's April Fool's Joke.

I was touched by the outpouring of sentiment. Now, I must revise the standard joke that I've been telling. It appears I don't have five regular readers. The actual number is closer to thirteen. It'd be a lot higher if some of you lazy bastards learned how to use the Share button, but I'll save that rant for another day.

Despite your unwillingness to spread the word, March 2014 was the most trafficked month in the history of Round Seventeen. With more than 8500 page hits. 10,000 monthly hits cannot be far behind.

In other words, I must be doing something right.

In order to compensate for that and to quell my unquenchable thirst for self-destruction, today I am willfully doing something wrong. And writing about politics, anti-semitism and Israel -- the birthplace of resurrection.

All, according to Big Data, your least favorite topics.

At a recent conference of the Arab League, male leaders gathered, wearing their distinctive dashing dishdashas. Women are not permitted to lead, or in many cases vote, or in other cases drive, or in other cases do anything more than birth and bake.


That's why you have the sausage-fest pictured above.

When they weren't eating their cookies, the mustachioed macho men put on an unusual display of unity. Unusual because the Shias and Sunnis, who comprise the Arab world, are normally at odds with each other. And hold widely divergent views on the coming Ummah, the time when the entire world will come under Sharia law.

Can you say dhimmitude?

But, if there's one thing they can agree on, it's Jews . They hate 'em.

They won't accept a Jewish state in their neighborhood, even though the Koran acknowledges a Jewish nation from the time of Mohammed, Peace be unto Him.

Even though a Jewish State was established in 1948. By the United Nations. The same recognized institution where 57 Muslims countries regularly pass resolutions vilifying Israel.

For those of you short on history, Palestine was also established in 1948, but instead of accepting two separate states (the solution we hear so much about) the Arabs chose to go to war.

They lost.

Eight years later, they lost again.

Nine years after that, Egypt's General Nasser threatened to throw the Jews into the sea. That didn't happen. And they lost again.

In the 60 plus years, the Arabs have never won a war, nor have they developed a winning strategy. As Abba Eban, once put it, "They never miss an opportunity to miss an opportunity."

Instead of shooting at the Jews they keep shooting themselves in the feet. This is not good as many of them are fond of wearing sandals.

Last week was no exception. The Arab League accepts none of the blame for the middle-east crisis and have doubled down on their own losing ways. Refusing to even recognize Israel or their right to exist.

In 1982, Israel gave back the entire Sinai Peninsula, more than 23,000 square miles of land. Today, Israel proper is only 20,000 square miles. That's more than 100% of their own land. Name me one country in the modern era that has made that kind of sacrifice.

Just look at the region from a big picture view.

In Israel, 7 million literate people thrive in a democracy that is at the forefront of technology.

In the Arab world, 300 million, mostly illiterate people, live on the edge of poverty, struggle against political oppression and bloody sectarian violence. I'll bet there are 100,000 dead Syrian civilians that would gladly live in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights.

And yet everyday 300 million people suckle themselves on their hatred for Jews and bow 5-times-a-day, reverently calling for Israel's destruction. Allah willing.

Maybe it hasn't occurred to them, but maybe Allah is not so willing.

That's it, folks.

The well is dry.
The batteries in the keyboard are dead.
And my doctor will not renew my prescription for Vicoden.

So, we're closing up shop, throwing the deadbolt and calling it a wrap.

For some of you this could be the best news of the day.

"Thank the Lord. Now I don't have to put up with his insufferable stories, his shameless self-promotion and his unearned, bloated sense of righteous indignation. He's like a little school girl with an instagram account, a non-stop parade of desperate selfies that just cry out for attention."

For others it will be like.

"Eh, who cares, now I'll have more time to read Kathy Hepinstall's blog . She's not as prodigious, but she's a real writer. And she's actually funny."

And for 5 people, this news may be crushing.

"You can't stop writing Round Seventeen. It's the first thing I read every morning. It puts a smile on my face. And makes life bearable."

Ok, maybe not 5 people, maybe two people, including my wife.

You might think that after five years and more than 1000 entries into this blog that my epitaph would be a long rambling tome, chock full of anecdotes and wisdom.

Or that it would be a heartfelt piece, with layers of snark and cynicism carefully peeled back to reveal a soft core of raw emotion and unabashed sentimentality.

But you'd be wrong.

You might also be wondering why am I pulling the plug today?

Yesterday was March 31st and web traffic for the month was 8500 page views, the highest monthly total ever. Taking the advice of one Jerry Seinfeld, "it's always good to leave on a high note."

Thank you.

It was fun.


Here in Southern California, birthplace to many of the nation's fast food titans, there has been a little brouhaha in the advertising community.

In keeping with Round Seventeen policy I'm not going to name names. At this point I don't have to.

Nor will I weigh in on the matter as I don't want to rub any noses the wrong way and I'd like to keep putting food on the Siegel dinner table.

However, when it comes to the issue of plagiarism, I will not waffle. I am against it.

Let's go to the Time Machine and step back twenty years, when I was gainfully employed at Team One  Advertising.

The agency was growing fast. And I had the unique privilege to work in one of the most talented Creative Departments. Many of those art directors and copywriters have become ECDs or CCO's. Moreover there was a great camaraderie. We often went to lunch in groups of 10 or more. And we laughed. Often 'til our cheeks and necks were hurting.

We ate together.
Laughed together.
Even reviewed portfolios together.

And it was during one of these sessions that an art director pulled a laminated two page spread from a black case, turned to me and said, "Hey Siegel, I thought you did this ad at Chiat/Day."

And indeed I did, though I can't stand to look at it now, I will offer it up for your amusement.


As you can imagine I almost popped a carotid artery.

What the fuck was this clown doing with my Nissan ad in his portfolio, I thought.

And then I turned to the group and said, "What the fuck is this clown doing with my Nissan ad in his portfolio?"

Well, if you know me or if you've been reading this blog for any time now, you know that this simply would not stand.

The following day, we, the creative department commandeered a conference room and called the offending aspiring writer. We told him his portfolio showed potential and prodded him with questions about relocating to El Segundo where Team One was headquartered. We told him about the affordable houses. The excellent schools. Even some of the fine dining choices on Sepulveda Blvd., like the Stick and Stein.

In other words, we got him all worked up about joining the Team One team. And then…

"Tell us about this long copy Pathfinder ad. That's some old time craftsmanship. Did you write this?"

"Sure did," he replied.

"Ehhhh (imitating the sound of a game show buzzer). Wrong answer, douchebag. I wrote this ad last year."

Even though we were separated by a thousand miles or so, you could literally hear his heart sink, smashing into his kidneys.

A long silent pause was broken by a mea culpa.

The kid explained that he was working at a Chiat/Day satellite office and had to resize the ad for a different publication. Meaning, the copy was tweaked. Two prepositions and a pronoun were added to the 864-word ad. That hardly gave him the right to put my work in his portfolio.

We told him the book would be returned. Minus the Pathfinder ad.

That laminated copy is somewhere out in my garage. It's attached to something else. A hand-written letter from the offending party. He Fed-exed me a heartfelt apology as well as a thank you. For teaching him a critical lesson about integrity; a character trait that is highly undervalued and in very short supply, particularly in our industry.

In retrospect, I like to think I would have handled the situation with a different approach.

Perhaps a little more maturely. But it was 1994, I was only 24 years old and had full head of hair as well as a full head of energy. Plus, there was no such thing as the Internet.

Or Agencyspy.


Color me confused.

Went to use the bathroom the other day and found this jerry-rigged privacy curtain hung on the stall door.

It never would have occurred to me to construct this 2 ply penumbra.

However, and you can thank me later, it did occur to me to photograph it.

As I sat on the throne going about my business -- no further details on that matter -- I wondered what would drive someone to such engineering feats.

I will grant you the space between the stainless steel partitions is wider than an eyeball. But in all my years in public men's rooms, I've never seen another man peer in through the crack for a better look.

A passing glance perhaps but never a full on peer.

Maybe I'm lucky that way.

I have found a jiggle on the door handle provides all the occupancy information an urgent bathroom goer could possibly need.

That said, if I were in the seated position returning my Chipotle Chicken Burrito Bowl back to the Pacific and I noticed a more-than-curious eyeball spying on me during a most delicate time with my pants around my ankles, I would have nothing to be embarrassed about.

At least nowhere near as much as the guy who makes it a habit of browsing toilet stalls.


Last year's Occupy Movement made all the headlines. The 99% er's brought their beef to the street and everyone was talking about it.

Before that we had the vaunted Arab Spring, where disenfranchised voters in Egypt, Libya, Tunisia and now Syria, fought to have a voice in their country's future.

But what happened to Miracle Whip's Sandwich Condiment Revolution?

Perhaps you remember their rousing egg-based call to arms from 2009:


Don't go unnoticed.

Don't blend in.

Don't be ordinary, boring or bland

In other words, don't be so mayo.

We are our own one-of-a-kind unique flavor.

We are Miracle Whip.

And we will not tone it down.


Wow, you must be thinking, "has it really been five years since I felt that stirring in my belly?"

Like you, I want to know where the revolution stands today. Has progress been made? Is egg salad no longer just egg salad? Or is it now the chosen food for those who openly defy convention?

What's next on the Miracle Whip agenda? And more importantly how can I, an individual with strong feelings about mayonnaise and sandwich toppings, get involved and actively engage with the brand?

I feel like maybe I've been left out of the loop.

Maybe they're talking about Miracle Whip on Instagram.
Or Plaxo.
Or Tinder.

Maybe there are underground after hours clubs packed with hipsters planning the next Miracle Whip Rage against the Mayonnaise Machine. Maybe that's why I'm lost out here in no man's condiment land.

I don't know.

What I do know is if Miracle Whip doesn't follow up their original anthem spot with another edge-of-my-seat manifesto my attention will turn elsewhere.

You know after my 10 hour work day, my 90 minutes of exercise, my 35 minute dinner with the family, my 25 minutes of helping my daughters with their homework, my 22 minutes of The Daily Show, and my 15 minutes of online chess, I still have a precious 10 minutes worth of bandwidth to spend with my favorite brands.

If these Miracle Whip people don't step up to the plate, I'll go elsewhere.

I hear they are doing exciting things over at Pepto Bismol.

Nancy Grace.
Has there ever been a more inappropriately named woman?

She is to grace as I am to svelte.
Or tall.
Or easy on the eyes.

For the life of me I do not understand why this walking/talking leach/woman has a nationally-syndicated program on HLN.

An even bigger mystery is why I have HLN as one of the presets on my XM radio.

I don't do a lot of driving these days. My commute is mercifully short. And when I am in the car I'm usually tuned in to the Classic Vinyl Station or BB King's Bluesville. You can't beat some of the nicknames that came out of the Memphis music scene: Pine Top Perkins, Blind Lemon Jefferson, and Eddie Cleanhead Vinson.

But occasionally I'll need a hit of news, so I scan through to CNN. And when they go to commercial to hawk some hemorrhoid cream or Sizzler Early Bird Specials, I switch over to HLN.

That's when she comes on.

I work in advertising, so it's already a given that I have a sado-masochistic streak. But this woman's voice, her mannerisms, and her proclivity to talk over anyone else in the vicinity can only be described as radio journalism's equivalent of waterboarding.

Twenty years ago when the ATF tried to flush David Koresh and his wacky followers out of the Waco compound, they blasted heavy metal music through industrial-sized speakers. An obvious blunder.

Ten minutes of Nancy Grace badgering a defense attorney or pimping the travails of Tot Mom, and those brainwashed Seventh Sealers would have come screaming out the front gate begging for mercy.

I can listen to Nancy Grace in twenty second intervals. By comparison, I can listen to sharpened finishing nails being dragged across a fresh new blackboard in thirty second intervals.

This is not say that Nancy Grace serves no discernible purpose in this world.

On the rare occasion when I get in a fight with my wife, I will often storm out of the house and try to gather myself with a high speed drive along the uncrowded Marina Freeway. When the speedometer creeps past 70, I'll tune in to The Shrill One and find great comfort there.

Because while marriage can often be difficult and test my patience, thankfully, I do not occupy the painful shoes of mister Nancy Grace.

Actually, no one should.

Last week I was going over the collection of work I have amassed over the last 25 years in advertising . I did not walk away from the review a happy man.

Much like the woman pictured above, with the plethora of penises (penii?) tattooed to her skull, the vision in my head did not sync up with the reality on the page.

Please do not read this as some kind of humble brag.
It is not.

I am seriously disillusioned for all that I do NOT have to show for my professional efforts. Yes, I've had the good fortune to produce some good work over the years. But I've had the greater misfortune of watching much, much more good work ---sometime even great work -- die on the vine.

I am by no means alone in this respect. In fact, if you're involved in the creative endeavor and you're reading this, I can already detect your blood pressure beginning to rise.

I can't speak for you and your failures, for that I suggest signing up for Wordpress or Blogger, but I can, and often do, speak on mine.

And after much consideration, I've discovered there's a very good reason why my portfolio sucks. Frankly it has little to do with me.

That's right, it's not my fault.

War Story Time:

Back in 1999, we met with Stuart Wolff, the CEO of homestore.com. This was a man who inhaled his own fumes and often talked of himself in the third person. Comparing his yet-to-be-written legacy to that of Steve Jobs and Bill Gates.

We had presented many campaigns to Stuart, but one rose above the rest. He was ready to green light the project, but wanted us to "change the paradigm." In the late 90's everything was about paradigm changing.  Stuart challenged us to find a way to make people consider paying to see our commercials.

My partner and I suggested filming an entire movie, which we could distribute and monetize, and extract the homestore.com commercials from the footage. It had never been done before. And the approach was both ambitious and fraught with risk.

Because it was iffy, agency naysayers on the account and management side cowered in fear.

"You're not making a movie, Rich."

"Learn to compromise. Why do you have to be such a stubborn ass?"

"Give it a rest, Fellini."

I suppose we should have listened and made nice-nice with the agency brass. But we didn't. We stuck to our guns and persisted like an open wound. The battle of wills, which often got ugly, lasted more than a year. In the end, the movie and the commercials got made .

The acrimony earned my partner and I, a severance check and a security-guard escort from the building.

That was a costly victory, in a war that has seen far too many defeats.

The point is this. My portfolio -- and most likely yours -- would be 100 times better if the people who got in the way, got out of the way.

The other point is this. I don't fight anymore. Particularly now that I'm a freelancer. Because many agencies, not all, don't want fighters. They flap their tongues about cultivating rebels, misfits, and passionate artists who have a unique voice and challenge the status quo.

But what they really want are cheap Kool-Aid drinking drones, who can stylishly sport a nose ring or a sleeve of tattoos, and toe the company line 12 hours a day from the comfort of their Aeron chairs at the Creative Department Community Table.

For all its chest-pounding and goose-stepping, the Third Reich only lasted a dozen years.

The sun rose on the British Empire, but then a few hundred years later it set.

The Greeks and Romans had their fair share of success, but they too did not stand the test of time.

Similarly our American experiment will eventually fall. And when it does, historians will look for clues and begin casting blame.

I'd like to short circuit that process and save them the trouble.

Our inevitable descent began the day that kids across the USA stopped delivering the newspaper by hand.

I'm dead serious about this.

As you might have expected, I had one of those character-building paper routes.

I got my first newspaper delivery route when I was 14 years old. Everyday after school, I'd load up my canvas bag with 35 newspapers, strap them to my aging bicycle, and tool around the neighborhood delivering the goods. None of this tossing-the-paper-while-riding crap either. That was some twisted Rockwellian fantasy.

No, I parked the bike, fought off snarling dogs, and responsibly placed each paper under the doormat to protect it from the elements. And in upstate New York, there were plenty of elements: rain, sleet, snow.

Those damn postmen get all the glory, but we newspaper delivery boys walked the same beat.

When the kid in the adjoining neighborhood couldn't take the pressure and abandoned the job, I swooped in and grabbed his territory, effectively doubling my route to 75 houses.

It was hard, tedious work. And the pay was miniscule. The only thing that kept me going was my father's command to keep at it and the pubescent fantasy that one day one of these lonely housewives along the route would come to the door in a negligee, invite me in and slip me a truly memorable Christmas tip.

That never happened.
Nothing even remotely close.

Nevertheless the enterprise taught me some valuable lessons about discipline, adversity and fortitude. The kind of characteristics that are in short supply these days.

If I had my way, I'd make both my teenage daughters secure themselves a job delivering newspapers. Of course either by willful ignorance or the rise of technology, nobody reads newspapers anymore.


Addendum: One day while working my route, I was driven off the side of the road by a passing car. The bike was totaled and I broke my wrist. The doctors said I lost 15% of the turning ability in my radius bone. Weeks later at a workers compensation hearing, the judge asked me what I wanted to be when I grew up. Though I am inordinately squeamish and have all the musical talent of a leaky faucet, I followed the commands of my father and told him I wanted to be a Brain Surgeon or a Concert Pianist. The judge awarded me $2000 for college funds. That was more money than I had ever earned schlepping the papers. America, what a country!


This cannot be happening.

The adorable little girl standing in the flower bed with her little summer outfit and the tiny shoes that would fit in my cereal bowl, is turning 18 today.

Eighteen!

I know I should be extremely proud of her.

Proud that she's funny, caring, sensible, good-natured and incredibly intelligent. That she's a solid A- student. That she's already been accepted at 8 of the 10 colleges she has applied, and still waiting to hear from 8 more. That she's kind to her mother, her sister, and sometimes her father. That's she's a good driver, a hard worker and a talented photographer.

I should be proud and happy and glowing about all of that.

But the truth is, I want to scream.

I want to make it stop.

I want to come home from work and see her crawling on all fours in the backyard.

I want to read to her about Zundel the Tailor before she nods off to sleep.

I want to see her marvel at the workings of a garden hose.

I want to lather her hair up with shampoo and make a faux hawk.

I want to see her giggling on stage during the first grade production of Guys and Dolls.

I want to lay on the carpet and play Pretty Princess with her and her sister.

I want what I'm finding out every parent wants, a chance to do it over again.

Only smarter, better, kinder.

Less concerned whether a brain-dead client likes a rough cut and more in the moment of being a Dad.

Truth is, I'd empty half the bank account -- not the whole thing cause I don't want to end up in a dirty nursing home -- to relive any part of what is now just a memory.

This magical Sunday morning would be a good place to start.

Today's dirty word: Collaboration.

This will come as no surprise, but I'm an old school guy. I'm not sure when that transition happened, but it did. And as my buddy recently told me, it's best to just own it.

So I do, confident that my first hand memories of printed polyester shirts and the Watergate hearings have nothing to do with my ability to out-think, out-write and out-perform today's crop of copywriters.

However, I cannot hide my disdain for this new term that is creeping into agency life wherever I go.

I'm talking about collaboration.

It's the notion that if two people, an art director and a copywriter, are good at coming up with creative solutions to a challenge, then four people, or six people, or eight people, are even better.

I'm familiar with this approach when it comes to codeine-enhanced cough medicine. And can attest to its euphoric efficacy. Three teaspoons of Promethazine are always better than one. But it doesn't work when it comes to work.

Collaboration simply muddies the water. Even the term bothers me. I can't help think of the Vichy government who collaborated with, and were puppets of, the Nazi regime.

I can't imagine how young people today, who may be drinking the collaboration Kool Aid, can stand out and make a name for themselves and their work if they are content to throw all their ideas into the collective bucket of mediocre groupthink.

You see, when I find myself briefed with other teams on a big project, I don't want to work with them. I want my partner and I to beat the pants off them. I want our ideas to outshine theirs. So that when the next big project comes along the powers that be say, "let's get that old angry fat dude and his partner, they had some killer ideas."

I'll take competition over collaboration any day of the week.

I still have a vivid, photographic memory of a weekend spent at the old Chiat/Day warehouse. We were in the throes of a 100 million dollar pitch. We gathered in The Fish, a Gehry-designed conference room shaped like the inside of a sperm whale, and presented work to Clow and Kuperman.

My partner and I were guppies swimming with sharks. The rock stars of the business: Rabosky, Butler, Feakens, Gentile, Siltanen, Rice, Sweitzer, Hooper, Vincent, Jordan, Curtis, Hughes, Dunkle, et al.

Each team stood up and, hoping not to embarrass themselves, and presented their best thinking. The tension was high. But the desire to best the other teams was even higher.

And guess what? It worked.

Everyone, through the process of competitive humiliation, got better. Not unlike hot steel being forged into a precision sushi knife.

There was a time when I knew all the names of all the people in the ad business who were doing the good work. Now, thanks to collaboration and the demise of the star system, I don't know any.

Or, maybe I do know their names but can't remember them. Hell, I can't remember where I left my reading glasses.


My friend Jim posted this on Facebook last week. It was quite the blast from the past. The early 80's I believe.

This is one of perhaps a hundred or so cartoon ideas we cranked out at the time.

I like to think it still passes muster.

In another lifetime, Jim and I contemplated a career in cartooning. We dreamed of getting staff jobs with the New Yorker and tickling the intelligentsia with our wry observations on politics, religion and the random often illogical rhythms of life.

Instead, we both ended up as junior writers in advertising.

He, shilling circuit boards and catheters.
And me, writing Help Wanted ads for Northrup and Boeing and TRW.

In addition to being a longtime friend and writing partner, here are two of our collaborations…





…Jim is also my former boss. He gave me my first job in the ad world. As a Mailroom Clerk at Needham Harper & Steers, which is now RPA.

Together we schlepped boxes, moved furniture, delivered mail, restocked the cabinets in the coffee room, and occasionally retrieved dry cleaning and Cuban-made cigars for the company big wigs. You know, the kind of errands two recent college graduates can only dream of.

We bitched and moaned at the time, but the friendship and camaraderie we developed were well worth the price. We were both brought up on National Lampoon. We both shared a passion for writing. And above all, we both yearned to get the hell out of the mailroom.

And so we pushed each other. Honing our portfolios. And knocking our brains together, along with the extremely-talented and curmudgeonly Tom Parker , to find ways of making stuff: ads, cartoons, magazine parodies, even screenplays.

The truth is, I'd have a hard time naming someone who has had a more positive impact on the trajectory of my career and my life.

Fittingly, today Jim chairs the Screenwriting Department at the New York Film Academy as is doing the same for young aspiring writers.

But don't let the high falutin title fool you.
No one appreciates a good fart joke more than Mr. Jim.


Last week I found myself having The Discussion no father ever wants to have with his daughter. Actually the topic was so critical I sat down and hashed it out with both my girls.

"Do you know what to do if the brakes on the car ever give out?"

My youngest, who has only been driving for two or three months was aghast.

"That can happen?"

Indeed it can.
And I know from experience.

When I was their age I was driving the cheapest cheesebox I could afford. That's right, I come from a time when teenage kids worked -- and I worked a lot -- saved their money, bought their own cars, paid for their own gas and covered their own insurance premiums.

The very first car I owned was a $400 Plymouth Valiant. It was built in 1966 and by the time I got the keys, the odometer had already circled past the 100,000 mile mark. Possibly even twice.

But it was built like a tank. And while it wasn't pretty, it did the job of getting me from Point A to Point B. And if the carburetor wasn't flooded or the alternator wasn't a little wonky, sometimes to Point C.

One memorable day, I had three buddies in the Valiant with me. We might have even shared some non-legal, non-medicinal marijuana.

We were heading down a huge hill on Rt. 59 towards Spring Valley when I pressed on the brakes to slow down. The pedal offered no resistance. I pumped it again and now the pedal went straight to the floor.

"Shit!" I said.

To the delight of my fellow passengers who thought I was joking. But I wasn't.

The brakes had failed. I yanked hard on the emergency brake and the Valiant continued to pick speed on the steep decline. Low on options, I threw the transmission into park. And by that I mean I pushed the Park button on the push-button transmission.



There was little grinding noise but hardly enough to break through the blaring of Foghat through the aftermarket 8-track player.

Suddenly I was turned into Mario Andretti. I weaved in and out of cars. Blasted through two red lights and steered the car to a steep uphill grade that siphoned off the speed until we could all stick our feet out the doors and bring the car to a stop, Fred Flintstone style.

A few years later, lightning struck twice. This time in Syracuse. In a 1964 Dodge Coronet. Again I was at the top of a hill and recognized the dilemma as soon as it happened. Unwilling to test my luck for the second time, I found a sturdy maple tree and greeted it with a 20 mph hour kiss.

Most people skate through life never having had this awful experience. I've had it happen to me twice. I'm hoping the folks in the Department of Karma take this into account and spare my daughters the trauma.

In light of this I've rewritten an Old Irish Blessing:

May your Check Engine light never come on prematurely,
May your brake lines be airtight,
May your Master Cylinder be free from leaks
and always, always be filled to the brim.

In my never-ending battle with bronchitis, I decided to rid my house of all unnecessary dust. If you're like me you've never had the air ducts in your home cleaned. I hadn't until a month ago.

If you're also like me you don't expect a service call with the air duct cleaning guy to be anything more than routine. You go on Yelp. You find a guy with decent reviews. You make the call. They come to your house. They break out the super-duper air duct cleaning machines.

Wham bam purified air, right?

Wrong.

At 11 AM on a clear Saturday morning, two vans showed up. In one van there was a friendly-looking, quiet Hispanic man. In the other van, the one of more interest, out popped a 6'2", 210 lbs. white guy who looked like he just stepped out of an MMA Thunderdome.

Or San Quentin.

Tatted from head-to-toe, he leaped from the van like a man on a mission.

He introduced himself and asked, forcefully but politely, if we could spend a few minutes talking about my particular air cleansing challenges.

He didn't want to know where the vents were located.
Or when the furnaces were installed.
He quizzed me about my allergies.
My medicines.
My past attempts to ameliorate the HVAC situation.

A few minutes turned into two hours. The canals in my ears were gathering dust.

I mistakenly offered him coffee but it was clear he had no need for any further stimulants. While he was explaining how a gas-powered furnace operates, I was watching the inked nerve muscles on his massive forearms twitching.

In fact, as I do whenever I encounter someone with old school tattoos, I instinctively looked for any gang insignia, or worse, Nazi emblems, like 88 or 4R or RAHOWA.

Thankfully, he had none.

But that hardly diminished his booming presence. He came on like a freight train, a derailed freight train. So much so that my family hid upstairs in their rooms. Knowing how torturous this whole pitch/service call was going and how I do not suffer salespeople gladly, my wife was in tears laughing at my dilemma.

Every question turned into a soliloquy.

I not only learned more than I wanted to know about ducts, dust, and microbes, I was an unwilling captive audience for tales about his colorful past, his odd church-going habits and his part time job cleaning the carpets at a strip club owned by his brother-in-law in Long Beach.

It was, as my daughters would say, "very sketch."

He had an animated, larger than life quality to everything he did. The way he walked. The way he talked. You could meet 10,000 strangers in your life, none would be as imposing or as memorable as this guy.

I could, and should, write a book about this unique character.

Maybe it was all part of his selling scam. And I must admit it was good. I opted for the premium clean up service. I bought the lifetime steel air filters. I paid top dollar for the whole kit and caboodle.

Here's what Mr. Throbbing-Tattoo-Musclehead-Air-Cleaner-Upper-Guy didn't know.

He charged me top dollar.
But the truth is, I would have paid him twice as much just to get him the hell out of my house.

You may have noticed, or you may have not, but months ago I changed the tagline on RoundSeventeen to L'enfer, c'est les autres.

If I know my audience, and I believe I do, none of you 14 lazy bastards bothered to Google the translation.

Allow me to enable your apathetic nature.

It's taken from the French existentialist Jean-Paul Sartre. I don't quote Sartre often. Mostly because I am not all that familiar with his work. And because I always mispronounce his name, which shouldn't embarrass me, but does.

L'enfer, c'est les autres means "Hell is other people."

And in most cases it is true. Unless the people in question are the performers who work at Cirque de Soleil.

Last week, we ventured into Santa Monica, an undertaking that requires more and more effort due to the overdevelopment and traffic. We entered the Big Top near the pier and for two hours we sat, jaws dropped, and immersed ourselves into this weird and wonderful world.

It's still in town for a few days so I won't do any spoiling, suffice to say the show is an end-to-end display of human beings doing things human beings cannot possibly do.

This is noteworthy.

I can go to Staples Center and watch the now-terrible Lakers and think to myself, "Geez I could have hit that free throw or made that lay up." Or I could walk the grounds at the Riviera Club and watch the Northern Open and think, "I could have birdied that easy Par 3 hole."

These are all within the realm of possibility.

But at Cirque de Soleil, I witnessed what can only be described as the impossible.

Of course that didn't stop me from my occasional flights of delusion. At one point in the show, I leaned over to my wife and whispered, "I could do that."

And then, as she often does, she rolled her eyes as if to say, "L'enfer, c'est assis a cote de mon mari."

Translation: Hell, is sitting next to my husband.

Many of my friends and colleagues are in the Lone Star State.

I am not.

In fact, I've only stepped foot in Texas once. San Antonio, to be more specific. For 5 minutes. Possibly the happiest 5 minutes of my life.

You see, three hours earlier my partner and I had stepped onto a miniature Lear Jet in Van Nuys, CA. It was the first time I'd ever flown in a private jet so I was unfamiliar with the accommodations. As we neared our cruising altitude of 47,000 feet I felt the urge to relieve myself. The flight attendant/co-pilot told me I was more than welcome to use the facility.

In order to do my business I would have to get on my knees and crawl into a tiny space outfitted with an even tinier port-a-potty. All next to a paper-thin wall separating me from my boss, Lee Clow .

It was a no-go, no-flow zone as far as I was concerned. Fortunately, we had to touch down in San Antonio to refuel the jet in order to reach our destination, Tampa Bay.

As soon as the ground crew guy unlatched the door I bolted out like an angry bull in a rodeo pen.

I have different memories for different cities. San Antonio will always be about removing the spur in my bladder.

That is not to tar the entire state of Texas.

In fact, I wouldn't mind seeing Austin.

I hear it's pretty cool. Or as the kids like to say "sic" or "tight" or "dope." By the way, if you're over 35 years in age, and I just turned 44 so this applies to me as well, you should never utter the phrase, "that's dope."

If I ever do make it to Austin it most certainly won't be for the SXSW.

As many of you know, I abhor large crowds.
I especially abhor large crowds of affected advertising people.
And finally I have no tolerance for large crowds of affected advertising people sporting knit caps, dreads and friendship bracelets, pontificating about what we can all look forward to in 2015.

Pontification and unfounded opinionating should be conducted by bald, cynical industry veterans, alone in their den, with ample caffeine, vicoden and fading memories of glorious days gone past.

That said, if you are in Austin for the SXSW, here are my top five can't miss panels and discussion groups you won't want to skip:


Media Planning Forum to Synthesize Transparent Infrastructures,
Tuesday 9:30 AM at the Digital Palapa


Chief Innovation Officers Panel on the Future Incubation of B2B Paradigms,
Wednesday 11:30 AM at the Westin Kale Bar and Juicing Station


Productizing Dynamic Channels and Best Practice Web Services, Wednesday 1:30 PM in the Pop-Up Parking Lot


Recontextualizing the Scalable Workspace Via The Community Table and Particle Board Extension Leafs,
Thursday 6:30 AM, hosted by the Barbarian Group


Maximizing Upward Profit Distribution to the C-Suite Through Fear, Merciless Attrition and Next Generation Accounting Principles,
Friday 10:00 AM at the Ponzi Room
and again  Saturday 8:30 PM in the Carlo Gambino Conference Center

A little over a year ago, my wife, myself and my two daughters stepped off a Metro train at the very busy Chatelet station in Paris. From there we walked a very short distance to the Louvre, where my girls were hoping to see the Mona Lisa.

They didn't.

The line to get into the museum snaked through the courtyard and spilled out onto the street. I want to say it was the Champs Elyses, but my Parisiain geographical memory is off and frankly I'm too lazy to look it up.

The point is it would have taken us more than three hours waiting on line just to get in. To see a painting. I didn't travel 8,000 miles to stand in a line next to some chain-smoking, loudmouth Belgian with the kind of body odor that would make a Pakistani day laborer wince.

Art, I told my kids, doesn't reside exclusively in snotty overpriced, over-popular museums.

I spotted this, last week while riding my bike along the scenic concrete sewage ways of Ballona Creek.

Keep scrolling for the full effect.


I don't know what it means. And frankly I don't care.

But it is pretty damn cool.

And there wasn't a line to see it.

Last week, just before I was about to hit the hay, I stumbled across a TV show about Shredding.

Not shredding like snowboarders ripping down a 15,000 foot high mountain and carving up 3 feet of freshly fallen snow. That might seem somewhat interesting.

This was a show about shredding.

As in every year I cart out my decade old files of bills and receipts and feed them into a machine with the delusion this will somehow protect me from identity theft. Though, to be honest if someone were foolish enough to want my identity, they'd be more than welcome to have it.

This was shredding on a larger scale.

I believe the name of the show is Mega-Shredders.

The machine in question, the Mega Shredder 9000, is the size of a tractor trailer. And what goes into the machine is a little weightier than my electricity bill from August 2006, when we ran all the ceiling fans and had to turn on the extra refrigerator in the garage to store the potato salad for my daughter's 9th birthday.

But essentially it's the same thing.

It's a TV show about two burly guys tossing furniture, discarded lawn tools and 5000 old porn VHS tapes left over from the 1990's, into the giant make-dust-out-of-stuff machine.

This is what passes for entertainment these days.

Of course the twaddle doesn't stop there. There are TV shows about pawning crap, fishing for tuna, building tree houses and demented people who like to eat pillow stuffing or lick cats.

The other night I caught myself watching a show about a young couple who wanted to buy a house in the bayou.

In the end, I found myself upset that they didn't pick the $95,000 double-wide on stilts sitting above the murky waters of Lake Cataouatche.

Makes me glad that I stayed in advertising and never ventured too deep into the abyss that is television.

It's also got to break the heart of writers, many of whom are friends, who slaved over well-crafted pitches and multi-page treatments that never saw the light of day.

Network Exec: "Yeah, we're not going to green light your idea, we're moving forward with a show about organic composting."

I got a new job.

I didn't bother to list it on Linkedin.com but I'm more than happy to tell you about here.

First thing you need to know about this new job is that it isn't exactly new. I've been doing it for a number of years. Mostly on a casual basis. But now it seems my services are in greater demand.

Second thing you need to know about this new job is the pay sucks. In fact, the better I perform at this new job the more money comes OUT of my pocket.

Now, the explanation.

Seems every time a Creative Director, a Copywriter or an Art Director, quits his or her job, or in many cases, "Gets Quit", my phone is the first to ring.

Last week, it happened twice.
On the same day.

The cynical part of me wants to believe these new entries in the freelance pool are simply fishing for information. Hunting down leads so that they may snake a gig away from me, and by consequence, take food off the Siegel family dinner table and land my college-bound daughters at the less-prestigious, less-expensive DeVry Institute.

The better of my angels says no.

They are just unfortunate colleagues who have been victimized by a brutal industry that has been hijacked by greedy, soul-less profit hoarders who have very little need for creativity, imagination, or for that matter, creative people.

Seeing as I've been a mercenary for close to 10 years, they're coming to me for some kind of counsel. Some simple reassurance. They want to know that everything will work out and that there's a way to make a good living as a hired gun. They're looking for a calm island amidst a sea of turbulence.

This amuses my wife to no end, as she will tell you I have the affirmation skills of a snapping tortoise.

But who am I to complain?

I'm flattered by the misguided confidence. And I relish the opportunity to reconnect with old friends and colleagues.

Mostly because it usually results in a free lunch.


I just celebrated my 44th birthday, so it seems only natural that I write about an age related issue.

To be more specific, I feel sorry for the younger generation of ad makers. Mostly because they have so little opportunity to make ads.

To be sure, they make plans. They make decks. They make all the preparations necessary to actually make an ad.

But then, because of bureaucracy or budget cuts or a new social media phenomena that has distracted the entire industry like some shiny fish bait, those ads never get made.

In a simpler, Internet-less time, when I was doing my best to learn the business and build a portfolio, it was all quite different.

In a typical year at Chiat/Day (the preferred nomenclature) I would knock out 2-3 TV spots, 3-4 double page spreads (long copy, no less), a few outdoor boards and maybe a radio campaign.

Not all of them book-worthy mind you. In fact, in retrospect much of it was simply embarrassing. But the experience of being on a set, dealing with directors and cinematographers, navigating the ins and outs of a production, was invaluable.

Moreover, I had great teachers who showed me a little something about the craft; Lee Clow, Steve Hayden, David Lubars, to namedrop a few.

It was only through doing it over and over, that I began to learn the meaning of subtlety, nuance and authenticity.

It's a shame. I could name a hundred art directors and copywriters today who have not produced a single TV spot, viral film, outdoor board or meaningful piece of content, as the kids would say, in the last 5 years.

And because they haven't produced anything, they haven't gotten any better at it.

It's not all a total loss.

Many of them have crafted widget tweeting vines or some other digital nonsense that tells 41 people what some other group of 23 people are doing at the local aquarium store.

Of course my explanation doesn't do their handiwork any justice. But they're more than happy to explain the wizardry on their portfolio links.

In lieu of actual ads they've gotten very good at that.

Who'd of thunk it?

Five years ago, when I started this blog, on the eve of my 38th birthday, I never thought this endeavor would reach the 1000th post benchmark.

Truth is if you count the numerous posts I have deleted, either because I offended someone, made some factual errors, or just had some rare second thoughts, this important milestone was reached about two weeks ago.

But that's not important.

In fact, none of this is important.

If I were to hazard a guess I'd say you could give a rat's ass that I've narcissistically returned to this keyboard more than 1000 times with the delusion that anyone cares if there's 1001st post.

The other fact is, when I started Round Seventeen I had no idea where it would go.

To me, those are the best creative journeys. It's a methodology I subscribe to.

The act of doing is more important than the act of planning.

When I wrote Tuesdays With Mantu , it was a complete whim. What began as a sophomoric way to entertain myself unexpectedly turned into a book, a website, an industry calling card and a soon-to-be released full-length feature film starring Ryan Gosling as provocateur Rich Siegel and Lawrence Fishburne/Samuel Jackson as the befuddled Mantu.

When I started my Kim Jung Un Tumblr , I never dreamed it would garner so much attention and catch the eye of Sony Studio executives who plan to turn it into a full-length feature film starring Bradley Cooper as prankster Rich Siegel and Ken Jeong as the mad DPRK Dictator.

And just recently I've started writing some short fiction, you know when I'm not hawking adult diapers, minivans or sugary soft drinks in my capacity as a copywriter.

With any luck these short stories/memoirs will be turned into an HBO miniseries starring Leonardo DeCaprio as the rascally Rich Siegel and Scarlett Johannson as the office temptress who just won't take "No" for an answer.

But I'm getting ahead of myself.

I just wanted to say thank you to the 14 people, who for some unknown reason, show up here on a daily basis.

I'm hoping, as I'm sure you are, that the second 1000 entries will be a lot funnier than the first.

Last week I read an article that stated half of all Americans believe Astrology is "very scientific" or "sort of scientific."

The "sort of" qualifier says so much about our current state of education.

I'm willing to bet that in Kansas, where the laws of physics "sort of" apply, the numbers run even higher.

This week, you'll be happy to know, Mercury will be coming out of retrograde. Meaning of course that traffic jams will disappear, politicians will speak honestly and the Obamacare website will be glitch-free.

To be honest, I didn't know much about the whole Mercury in Retrograde phenomena until I did a little digging online. Prior to that, it was only familiar to me through dimwitted Facebook status updates.

I'm not saying this to polish any apples, but with a few notable and unnamed exceptions, I run around with a pretty sophisticated and intelligent group on social media. People whose intellect I admire and whose opinions I respect.

You know that is until they disagree with me.

You can imagine how shocked I was to hear what's-his-face bitching about his mislabeled Cafe Americano at Starbucks or so-and-so blaming a bounced a check on the position of a tiny planet 48 million miles away from Earth.

This comes from colleagues, some of whom are in positions of power. Significantly more power than me. The power to steward brands and effect the paychecks of hundreds of employees who work under their "command."

Suffice to say the fruit from their tree has been poisoned. Once you've played the Mercury-in Retrograde Card, there's no going back, you are an astronomically-challenged, intellectually-starved cretinous tool.

So the next time one of these star bloviators has something to say about my work being off strategy or the rough cut of a spot doesn't make sense, I will only have one appropriate non-verbal response.

Pfffffft.

You probably didn't see this last week. I know I didn't. My buddy Steve from San Diego (he's a freelance copywriter and I'm not about to tell you his last name and give him any free publicity) sent me this recent article from the United Arab Emirates.

It seems local clerics, led by respected Professor Farooq Hamada, have issued a fatwa against any member of the Islamic faith who chooses to live on Mars .

Not a fatwa against Israel, which is just a few hundred miles away and has its own vast stretches of barren, scorching desert. But Mars, which is 36 million miles away from Earth.

A long flight, even if you're in first class.

Should this completely irrational fatwa take hold in the Muslim world, and there's no reason why it shouldn't, we in the thinking world, would have a glimmer of hope for mankind.

Maybe the other faiths would follow suit, including the dinosaur deniers, the snake handlers and the Rapture Hatchers .

Then, sometime in the distant future we could pack up our belongings, leave Mother Earth and live on the Red Planet. Knowing we would finally be free of these fairy tale mongers.

Imagine, if I may paraphrase John Lennon, a world with no religion.

Imagine a world where 9-year old girls are not sold into marriage.

Imagine a world where no one gets beheaded for NOT believing something that has no basis in reality.

Imagine loving whoever we want to love. Eating eating whatever we love to eat, including bacon, lobster and cheeseburgers. And not living an entire life based on the collective wisdom of ancient goat herders and sheep shearers who didn't know the first thing about gravity, thermo-dynamics or the early gut-busting work of Harold Ramis and the National Lampoon Radio Hour .

Apart from the searing heat on Mars, it all sounds pretty good.

It would be nice to live with intelligent, rational human beings who understand the objective truth of science and the power of free will.

By the way, if you're one of the folks who spent $59.95 for a VHS of Pia Zadora in Santa Claus Conquers The Martians, you are not eligible to make the flight.


Thanks to social media, the Grapevine has grown significantly vinier.

It used to take weeks, or months, before I'd hear so-and-so got promoted or whosey-whats-it is now running that office.

Facebook, Linkedin and Twitter allow me to have an instantaneous handle on the ad community at large. That knowledge is invaluable, particularly when I need to smile-and-dial and track down some freelance opportunity.

But it's also incredibly disheartening.
Because it means I have to bear witness to the industry phenomena known as "Failing Up."

Urban Dictionary defines it as such:

Failing Up -- (verb, intransitive) to derive gain in spite of failure that would usually either preclude said gain or have adverse consequences.

It happens everywhere.

You might be familiar with Lane Kiffin, the only college coach to take a pre-season #1 ranked team (USC) to unranked by the end of the season. He just got hired to be the offensive coordinator at Alabama.

Roll Tide.

Or what about Jamie Dimon, CEO of JP Morgan Chase. He was just awarded $20 million dollars, a 74% increase, despite engineering the bank's worst yearly performance.

And of course it happens in advertising.

Here's a list of a dozen CEO's, Creative Directors, Strategic Planning Directors, Account Supervisors and Chief Innovation Experiential Digital Social Media Mavens who have parlayed their special brand of incompetence into corporate ascendancy.

First off, there's the charismatic…

Oh for goodness sake

I know I don't do this enough, but today I'd like to talk about something good.

I hope this won't put you off.

You come here for some finely-scrubbed vitriol. For rants against injustice, inequality, and man's inhumanity to man. And those are just the posts about advertising. I regularly go off about religion, politics, thinning the herd and shitty neighbors with monster trucks and vicious pit bulls.

But today we're veering off that well-worn path.

Because last week, my old partner John Shirley and I had a unique advertising experience. And when I say unique, of course I mean it was good.

It was better than good.

I won't tell you the name of the agency (NDA and all that stuff) but I will tell you they are in Hollywood. And I hate driving to Hollywood. Between the tourists, the traffic and the omnipresent stench of urine, Hollywood makes Pacoima look good.

We worked long hours. We started at 9 sharp, because the owners of the agency get in at 8. And we stayed well past Final Jeopardy time.

And we did rewrites. Changing direction on a dime and chasing ideas at speeds that would make Usain Bolt jealous.

I didn't even get a full day rate.

So far, it sounds awful, right?

But it wasn't and I'll tell you why.
It was about the work.
The work.
And nothing but the work.

We were dealing with two Creative Directors who have done a boatload of great work. Their names are attached to some of the most recognizable and edgy stuff done in the last decade. To have them embrace our particular form of unconventional humor was flattering.

I may, as someone recently called me, an old fart, but the snow on the roof has not prevented me, and my partner, from cranking out ideas that are worth pursuing.

Moreover, these guys found a way of improving the work and pushing us to walk further out on the plank. Bigger, bolder, ballsier, is their creed and we were more than happy to oblige.

In other words, we had fun. And were laughing from the first cup of coffee in the morning to the first beer at night.

As John's wife so aptly put it, only you two could find a way to get paid to have a 6-day long Play Date.

I'm seeing a lot more of this these days.

And not because my DVR is set on a 24/7/365 search for anything related to the #1 ranked college basketball team in America, my Syracuse Orangemen.

The Jump Ball is de rigueur in the ad world.

Long gone are the days when an agency would earn 15% commission on all work done on behalf of their AOR client. That number has been halved. And if you listen to the whining of CFO's taking home 7-digit paychecks, halved again.

Even more troubling is the disappearance of the Agency of Record motif.

Now when a client needs to launch a new car, a new sneaker, or a new energy-enhanced vodka, they simply put the word on the street and wait for the craven, revenue-starved vultures (the ad agencies) to come pounding at their door.

It's all so upside down.

I can still remember a time when, at least the story goes, that if a client was being unreasonable or simply unreasonably stupid, Jay Chiat would tell them in no uncertain terms to take a hike.

Only he'd do it using words with many more hard consonants.

I don't know much about running an office or managing an agency. I have the financial acumen of a patio chair cushion. But it seems to me that we, the people in the ad business, have the know-how, the creative firepower and the rare ability to harness those imaginative powers to vault a client in the public consciousness. And with a little luck, into pop culture.

We have the secret sauce.
Client's don't.

I've been in meetings with them. They don't have anything remotely approaching that skill set. They know less about creativity and marketing than Ted Cruz knows about science and the principles of evolution.

Like I said, I'm just a Luddite and probably would have thrown my money in with Bernie Madoff, but my rudimentary understanding about supply/demand and the way the free market works tells me we shouldn't be pitching new business to clients.

They should be pitching to us.

Referring to decades of missteps, mistakes and misguided notions, Abba Eban once said, "The Palestinians never miss an opportunity to miss an opportunity."

We, the advertising community, are the Palestinians of the business world.

The current malaise of our industry is completely self-inflicted. And nowhere was it more apparent than this year's Super Bowl. Apart from an irresistible puppy and a horse, can you even remember one spot?

This should come as no surprise.

And I've written anecdotally about it before.

A creative briefing happens at 10 AM.
A creative check-in happens at 3 PM.
At 6 PM, the deck begins the assembly process for a 9 AM meeting the following day.

Kill.
Rebrief.
Repeat.

That's what the business has become. And instead of saying "Stop", Account "Managers" will often turn to the client and say, "Thank you sir, may I have another?"

But that's only one foot.

We would be remiss if, like the Palestinians, we failed to lock and load a large caliber gun and shoot ourselves in the other.

Enter the phenomena of Global Advertising. And the rise of the incredibly forgettable, one-word tagline, including:

Rise

Advance

Go

Now

Lead

Start

Forward

I don't know when this hair brained idea began, I can only picture some mucketty muck sitting in a large conference room looking over all the disjointed campaigns his company has done in Europe, Asia and North America and thinking, "Boy we could save a lot of money if we just ran one campaign. If all the luggage matched, my bosses will be so pleased. They'll give me more dough and I can buy another yacht."

I can also picture the agency guy responding to such marketing fuckery with, "Yeah, we can do that."

Completely ignoring the fact that what motivates a middle manager in Mumbai to purchase a mid-sized sedan has nothing to do what moves a mother of three from Des Moines into a showroom 8,000 miles on the other side of the planet.

And yet, as is often the case, this colossal turd of an idea called Global Advertising is regularly dumped into the hands of the creatives. Who are told, without a hint of irony, that the client needs a Global Campaign with the following parameters:

TARGET MARKET -- Human beings, Age 1-100

MANDATORIES -- No Copy. Or only words that can be translated into 137 languages.

TONE -- Global. Friendly. Innovative. Warm. Leadership. Forward-Thinking.


My contempt for the open office plan is as endless as this new Endless Table recently installed at the Barbarian Group in NYC.

As you can see from the NY Times article , it was designed by Clive Wilkinson, the same architect who designed the offices of TBWA Chiat/Day, a place I used to call home for so many years.

I loved working at the Big Yellow House in Playa Vista, just 2.7 miles from my home. Mainly because we had the semblance of a real office, an in-house restaurant, a basketball court and state of the art editing and production facilities, all in the same building.

What we didn't have was an 1,100 foot long concrete, rebar-reinforced monstrosity ribboning through the office posing as some advancement in advertising office ergonomics.

I don't fault Clive.

In fact, thanks to some mutual friends in the industrial design arena, he and I are only separated by two degrees. So, if this should ever get back to him, he should know I am a big admirer of his work.

Clive was only doing what we all try to do -- deliver on the brief.

I have a bigger problem with the agency brass who have deluded themselves into thinking that creativity can thrive in a tiny (4 ft.) workspace more suited to an abattoir-bound baby cow.

You might hear a lot of claptrap about "greater collaboration" and the "spontaneous free-flowing spark of imagination", but I'm here to tell you it's all Bullshit. Mouthed by millennial sycophants who have been spoon-fed a steady diet of architectural malarkey and trained to speak in jargon-filled vagaries.

This isn't just me blowing off some old man smoke.

If you've got a few minutes and your co-worker next to you isn't blasting some horrendous European electronica crap through his or her Dr. Dre Beatphones, or whatever the hell they call them, take a look at this article  recently published in the New Yorker. It details the decline of productivity and morale in today's modern new gulags.

Or, here's an even better idea.

If you're curious and would like to know why the big wigs at the Barbarian Group would drop $300,000 on an Endless Table instead of, oh I don't know, using that money to create a more private, more humane, more productive work environment, why don't you ask them?

They should be stepping out of their closed-door offices any minute now.

As you might know, I am an unapologetic Zionist.
And nothing stokes my zeal for the State of Israel like a good Holocaust documentary.

Last week, I watched an amazing show on the History Channel about some recently discovered photographic albums from the Auschwitz concentration camp.

There were two albums.

One focused on the happy-go-lucky Ernst Hoecker, an SS Administrator who enjoyed having his picture taken picnicking and frolicking with the SS women, while just a few hundred yards away, men, women and children were being escorted off a train and shoved into a gassing chamber.

The other album focused on the victims, some of whom may have been my own distant relatives.

What I find most interesting is that these were not just ordinary people. They were, in different circumstances, the same people who could have made Hitler's 1000 Year Reich last a little longer than a dozen.

Because in those gas chambers, and later into the ovens, were physicists, chemists and engineers who could have harnessed the power of the atom for Deutschland.

Among those 6 million, there might have been a doctor who would cure cancer.
A novelist who might have written the next Moby Dick.
A composer who might have topped Beethoven.

In addition to the unimaginable human suffering, it pains me to think of the intellectual capitol that was lost.

None of that has stopped the hatred of Jews.

In fact the movement to boycott Israeli goods and academia is only gaining steam. Seems some good-hearted, progressive activists are more than willing to overlook the atrocities in Egypt, Libya, Lebanon, Iraq, and the 120,000 civilians killed in Syria, and are more intent on stopping those damn Jews.

Nowhere was this more aptly contrasted than in my recent Facebook feed.



One group of people are determined to move mankind into a brighter, better future, while another group of people are determined to go the other direction.

Last week was the Super Bowl. And for the umpteenth time in a row I did not have a spot during the big game. I suppose the way the Super Bowl spectacle is handled in the media I should thank my lucky stars.

Every Monday morning marketing quarterback wants to chimes in.

"Farts, boobs and dogs."

"Sophomoric cheap laughs."

"Unsophisticated million dollar garbage."

Wait a minute, those are all in my particular wheelhouse.

And yet my bell has not been rung. Oh, I've come close. Achingly close . But fate, as she often does, threw me to the curb.

I even had a couple of shots, or as my buddy likes to call them an At Bat, at this year's game. It was not to be. And the work that did run where my spots could have run and should have run, was let's just say, "less than spectacular."

It kills me not only during the post-Super Bowl time period, but throughout the year. I see commercials on television and recognize them as assignments I worked on. Invariably, the reaction is always the same.

They passed on our scripts and chose to produce that?

Or, if my daughters aren't in the room…

Motherfuckers, that's what they ended up with?

I know what you're thinking or even muttering under your breath. Rich, you're sounding a little full yourself. What makes you think you could've done any better? Maybe you ought to try a little humility?

Yeah, well, we're close to 5 years into this blog and quickly closing in on a 1000 posts, it's a little too late for that.

When I was 19 years old, I believe Eisenhower was the President and had just given a keynote speech about the importance of separating church and state, I had to make a most difficult telephone call to my father.

I told him I was switching college majors, and subsequent careers, from the stable and lucrative world of chartered accountancy to the not-so-stable and often impoverished world of creative writing.

"WTF!!!!!" he screamed into the phone.
(He didn't use the acronym.)

It was not pleasant.

That discord tainted our relationship for the next 5-10 years. But eventually he came to grips with my new vocational direction. Finally understanding that I, like most people who write, had no choice in the matter.

When he saw that I could actually bring home a paycheck, just for putting one word after another, he began to appreciate it. He even started bragging about it.

"From the luft," he would say citing the Yiddish phrase,"my son makes a living from the luft."

The literal translation means from the air, as in the famed German Air Force, the Luftwaffen.

Sadly, he passed away before my questionable abilities made their way to film or a manuscript or even a TV commercial. And long before Round Seventeen.

This little anecdote serves as personal reminder of my responsibility, and in fact our responsibility, to nourish new writers. I can't think of a better way to do that than to support my friend and accomplished author Toby Barlow and his worthy cause .



The premise is pretty simple.

Writers get houses.
Houses get renovated.
Detroit gets better.

And if this little call for donation from my 13 regular readers produces enough revenue, Toby might even throw me another freelance gig.

It's a win-win-win-win situation if ever there was one.

The Write A House folks are tantalizingly close to the goals they've set. And this is the last week of fundraising. So give and give generously.

I sprung for the $60 donation so I could receive the Write A House T-shirt. Unfortunately it's a poly/cotton blend which makes my hirsute Bulgarian body perspire profusely.

This is not to be taken as a threat but if you don't break out the checkbooks, I'll do a pictorial post about my sweaty swarthiness.

And I don't think any of us want to see that.


Many, many years ago, when I was the age of many of today's Associate Creative Directors, I spent a summer working with my friend as a Lawn Doctor.

His father, a retired NYC cop, had just purchased the franchise serving the Greater Upper Saddle River portion of New Jersey, you know, Tony Soprano Country.

Naturally the old man needed two stupid and strong young teenagers to do the actual lawn doctoring. And as we had three months to kill before entering college, we fit the bill. Which made the name of the business even more laughable than it was.

We were to doctors as advertising planners are to rocket scientists.

The only plant life we had any working knowledge of pertained to specific herbs, known colloquially as Acapulco Gold or Maui Wowie or even the dreaded Adirondack Green.

Still, it was a great job.

We drank coffee.
We smoked weed.
And we pushed the machines, the mowers, the fertilizers, the aerators, around as if we knew what we were doing.

Oh, and we laughed our asses off.

But at the end of the day, over some Molsen's Golden Ales, we'd talk about the future. And how much better life would be when we finally get paid to use our minds. When we didn't have to wear dirty, sweaty overalls and we could apply our imaginations and tackle something more challenging than Mrs. Gianini's crabgrass.

The desk jobs came. And with it, the office politics, the finicky clients and the everyday bullshit of trying to make sense of the whole thing.

A few decades later, I find myself looking in the other direction.

I see sweaty cooks in a kitchen and yearn to be back there behind the line. I see bartenders serving up microbrews and wish I could slip into an apron. I see guys digging ditches on the highway and want to get out of my car and grab a shovel.

Like Peter in the cult classic OFFICE SPACE, I miss the joy of manual labor.

How quaint, I often ponder, to punch out at 5 o'clock and not think about work for another 16 liberating hours. I suspect this sentiment runs deep, particularly with my advertising brethren.

Maybe the grass isn't greener on the other side, but if I could earn the same amount of pay, I'd be more than happy to go mow it

This is M. Emmett Walsh.
The face might seem familiar because he's been in more than 10,000 movies and TV shows.

He's not only a terrific character actor, he's also my neighbor.
He lives in the house behind me.

He's funny.
Interesting.
And likable in every which way my other not-so-pleasant neighbors are not.

Recently, I was in my garage on my recumbent bike (a reminder, never buy anything from the NordicTrack company).

While I was pedaling away the pounds, OK, the ounces, I heard this -- verbatim -- in the 120+ decibel range from the house next to Emmett's…


"Fuck you."

"No, fuck you."

"Oh yeah, well, fuck you."

"Is that right, well, fuck you."

"Fuck you, you drunken fuck."

"I'm a drunken fuck? You sit on your fucking ass all day long, you lazy fuck."

"Fuck you."

"No, fuck you."


That went on for quite a while.
And then I heard a woman's voice.
She was on the phone.

"I had to take the phone outside the house. The boys are fighting again. Oh, I don't know, something about the remote control."

Did I mention the woman is in her 70's?

And the "boys" in question are both grown "men" in their late 40's who live with their mom?

Pretty glamorous, huh?

You probably don't recognize Rev. Bob Larson, but I do.

Years ago, he was all over the late night airwaves. Rev. Bob has the same magnetic force as Francis Ford Coppolla's Godfather or Alex Payne's The Descendants or Sidney Lumet's Twelve Angry Men.

That is, when I stumble across it on TV, I find myself unable to change the channel.

I had all but forgotten my fascination with this hair-challenged charlatan -- seen above it what appears to be the Exorcist's version of the Heisman pose -- until I came across an article about him  in last week's Huffington Post.

Seems Bob has gone all Demon Fighting 2.0.

And now, for the low, low fee of just $295, conducts his online exorcisms via Skype. Think about that. With nothing more than a good DSL connection, a webcam and three hundred bucks that you might have wasted on food or electricity bills, you can banish the Dark Lord from your possessed flesh.

Naturally, with my curiosity piqued, I took to surfing the inter webs for more of Bob's flamboyant devil chasing. I came across this video that unknowingly gives up Rev. Bob for the fake that he is.

Watch closely.




Did you catch it?
Did you see where this video went off the rail?
Did you, in the vernacular of con men, spot 'the tell?'

I didn't either until I shared the Brian video with my uncle who lives in Palm Springs.

"It's a lie from the very beginning" my uncle said, "there isn't a self-respecting gay man on earth that would engage in homosexual activity with a guy wearing that fleece vest."

If you read this blog regularly (that would be three people, my wife, my former art director partner and Jeff Gelberg) or even if you just stop by infrequently, you might get the notion that I hate clients.

You would be mistaken.

In fact, while I was employed as a staff Creative Director, I got along extremely well with clients. OK, the smart ones.

I like to believe it's because they knew that despite disagreements or the look of disgust that would occasionally, and uncontrollably, seize my face, I was always most concerned about doing good work.

You might even be surprised to hear that many of these former clients are friends on FaceBook. Or connections on linkedin.com. And that I still maintain contact with them after all these years.

It's true.

You see, while I fought for good work, I never yelled at a client.
Never had any kind of outburst.
And never, ever, though I often threatened to, gone all Gerard Finneran .

The fact is when I hear or read about the debaucherous behavior, the full-throttle temper tantrums and massive client departures that have brought down other Creative Directors, I begin to wonder why I was ever pink-slipped in the first place.

I never did drugs on the job.
Mostly because I'm a control freak.

I never drank to excess on the job.
I'm half Scottish and that line is somewhat loosely defined.

And I never chased skirt on the job.
I own a mirror.

That is not to say that I was without flaw.

I wear my faults as a badge of honor. To this day, the piece entitled  "Why I Sucked at Being a Creative Director"  is still the most popular post on this blog.

Of course, it all worked out for the best. Thanks to a good Jewish work ethic, I stay busy and earn about as much as a CD. But I don't have to sit in the painful meetings, CDs have to sit in.

The kind of torturous meetings where a Mitt Romney-lookalike CEO and owner of a multi-billion dollar company once looked across the table and said...

"What you've done here is nice. It's clever. But I think a better visual would be two businessmen shaking hands. That says success. Bring me back something like that."

That guy was a Grade A AssClown.
And knowing what I know now, I'd say that straight to his face.

Everybody is talking about commercials today.

OK, some are talking about the beating the Broncos put on the Seahawks. Or the beating the Seahawks put on the Broncos. I'm writing this on Saturday, so the outcome of the game is TBD.

But in my little world of advertising, the chatter (as the NSA would put it) is all about the spots.

"I loved the spot with the dog/monkey/sloth."

"We had that idea two years ago."

"The 60-second commercial was great, but did you go online and see their engagement unit? I was up to the wee hours of Monday morning engaging and interacting with the brand in a meaningful way that will result in exponentially greater sales intention."

Pretty fascinating water cooler conversation, huh?

Makes me glad I'm back to working from home.

Today, I'd like to bring up a commercial that isn't getting any buzz, but should. It's been airing a lot lately however I suspect it has flown under your radar. Which says less about the particular spot and more about your radar. And how desensitized we've all become to out and out stupidity.


Watch the spot. Here's the link.

With the exception of one miserable client that walked in the door at Chiat/Day years ago, I haven't done a ton of pharma advertising. And I'm sure it presents its own challenges. It's hard to sell anything when the FDA mandates a line of copy that reads…

"Use of this product may induce suicidal thoughts or even death."

Cue the jingle.

But I do know that had I been given the assignment for Crestor and told to beat the pants off those shysters at Lipitor, I'm 99.9% sure I would not have come up with a dancing Jeff Garlin lookalike who is so enthused about his new cholesterol pills that he has -- against the better advice of his wife -- redecorated the house with pharmaceutical swag.

That one is simply not in my playbook.

However, I would have paid good money to sit in on the meeting where the "Director" and the "Creative Team", presented their choice of "Actor" to the client.

AGENCY: We like this guy.

CLIENT: He's a little schlubby. Was there anyone more handsome? Crestor is an aspirational cholesterol reduction medication.

AGENCY: Let's watch the way he moonwalks again.

Cue the uncomfortable mercy laughter.

I try not to use this blog as a bully platform. And if you'll re-read the previous 990+ entries you'll see that despite Ample opportunity (Ample with a capital A), I have refrained from skewering any work done by my colleagues. Mostly because I am a freelancer and don't want to alienate anyone who could possibly give me a gig in the near future.

But if my career ever gets to a low point where I need to go all sycophant and ask for work from the team who put this Crestor masterpiece on the air, it's a safe bet that will induce some serious thoughts of suicide.


I know there is an interesting juxtaposition between the green traffic light, the profound bumper sticker and the glowing brake light.

I'll leave you to figure that part out.

But it does speak volumes on the ability of organized religion to induce rational paralysis and stifle the progress of human endeavor.

Perhaps someone could explain why "Don't Care" is in quotation marks?

Have a nice weekend.


I mentioned this earlier in the week, but I'm currently working in West Los Angeles. I'm at a building directly across the street from my lawyers.

Of course, "my lawyers" is a bit of a misnomer. I'm not involved in any litigation, these guys simply rewrite the terms of our living trust every five years or so. To determine which of my two daughters will get the bulk of our estate. I'm pretty sure estate should be in quotes as well.

The terms often rest on who cleans up their room or does the dishes when they are told to.

The bill from the lawyers is often amusing. And not in a good way.

They can charge up to $600 an hour. And they like to itemize the bill in 10 minute intervals.

Faxing copies (1/6th of an hour) ------------------------------------------$100.00
Making coffee (1/6th of an hour) -----------------------------------------$100.00
Billing client (1/6th of an hour)--------------------------------------------$100.00

That's right, they bill me for the burden of billing me. It's all very meta, but what can I do?

Contrast that with a different kind of work ethic I see everyday as I drive by the Home Depot on Sawtelle Ave.

In a perimeter that stretches a quarter mile all around, you will find dozens of undocumented (I'm assuming) workers who literally bum rush any car entering or leaving the Home Depot parking lot. The hope is, that for five or six bucks an hour, they can secure a day's worth of work cleaning drains, hauling furniture, or any other shit job deemed too shitty by lazy Angelenos.

My admiration for these guys knows no bounds.

They are there everyday. They come early (again I'm assuming, cause I don't stroll into my cushy job until 9:30) and they stay late. They run up to any vehicle that looks promising. And they want to work because they need to supplement the income of their wives, who are often cleaning houses for below minimum wages.

They have earned my respect and my empathy in a way some twenty year old slacker standing outside a 7-11 asking for spare change never will.

You want some of my money to buy some tallboys or a bag of weed? Sure, let's go back to my house. I have some prickly palm trees that need trimming.

What I know about art couldn't fill a thimble. In fact, after filling that thimble you'd still have plenty of room for a big fat Lou Ferrigno-sized thumb.

But after years in the ad business and paling around with art directors, some of their visual acuity must have rubbed off.

Here's why.

Several weeks ago, my wife and I were out shopping for bedroom furniture. We're now in the third year of this five year process. We entered a small shop by the old Helms Bakery, which is now Furniture Central for those affluent enough to live in West Los Angeles. And smart enough not to shop on LaBrea or Melrose.

We didn't find anything we could agree on, but we both gravitated to some artwork we spotted on the walls. With my wife's birthday approaching I thought one of those pieces might make a perfect gift. So I returned to the store, solo, a week later. The store was gone. As in vanished, gone.They couldn't drum up the traffic to sustain the costly retail space.

So I went online and did some digging. I found one of their other locations and tracked down the name of the artist. With a little more research I found his website. And discovered that he lived in nearby Mar Vista.

E-mails were exchanged and before I knew it I was shaking hands with Sean Finocchio, who had graciously invited me to his garage to go through his work .

I selected three of the smaller pieces and think they look great (see above).
Everybody who has been to the house since the prints went up has agreed.

By the way, this was not the first art excursion I've ever made. Years ago, while walking on the boardwalk I spotted some interesting work done by a South African artist who does some three-dimensional pieces. He was charming as well and invited me back to his shabby Venice studio. I bought up some of his work.

I told Sean the story and he immediately snapped, "Fortune? Was the art done by a guy named Fortune ?"

It was.
And it turns out he moved to Oakland and now hangs with a more elite class of art buyers, including Queen Latifah.

I'm guessing that the Fortune Sitiole work I now have in my possession is worth considerably more than what I scraped out of my beach short pockets years ago.

With any luck and a little promotion on my part, so will Sean's work.

One more thing. The next time an art director tells me I don't know what I'm talking about, I'm going to suggest otherwise.

You know what this is, don't you?

It's a Focus Group room. My feeling on focus groups are very simple. I'd rather be at a funeral. Even if that funeral were my own.

That's how much I hate them.

Oddly enough, it's not the people inside the group, the ones stuffing their faces with wet tuna fish sandwiches and previously pawed-over M&M's that I detest. Though I do question the sanity of any person willing to give up a good three hours of their life for the opportunity to "critique" a TV commercial and take home $50.

The orange-vested half-wits at Home Depot make more money than that. And all they have to do is wear the veil of efficiency and answer questions with simple two word phrases like, "aisle seven" or "over there."

My greater scorn is for the experts in the foreground, the ones filling their pie-holes with artisanal pizza, gluten-free lasagna and previously pawed-over M&M's. The folks who insist good brand stewardship depends on the opinion of a 34-year old stay-at-home mom who watches Fox News but secretly adores Rachel Maddow's hairdo.

What's worse is these late night mental masturbation sessions usually take place under the watchful eye of the client.

Meaning, that in addition to witnessing work get pummeled by a grab bag of psychographic misfits including Active Motivators, Aspiring Explorers, and Risk-Taking Self Actualizers, one often has to endure the unwatchable pandering that passes for "account management."

The head nodding, the eye winking and the copious note-taking are all enough to make me wish I had pursued a career in lawn maintenance.

Every cretinous comment is dissected and parsed out, and not for meaningful marketing insight. It's all for the purpose of scoring career points.

"See…", a knowing planner will look over to the client, "...that's what I was saying in the briefing session last week."

That's what focus groups are about. Mealy-mouthed careerism. And anyone who says otherwise is simply lying. Or in Focus Group vernacular, they are a Persuasive Dispenser of Misinformation.

My feelings are best summed up by my favorite Anti-Semite Henry Ford, who famously said, "If I had asked people what they wanted, they would have said faster horses."

Of course, if further focus groups had been assembled, there would have been much disagreement, many tuna fish sandwiches and millions of dollars wasted discussing the color of these faster horses.

Spotted on Olympic Blvd. near the office where I am currently working.

The building is across the street from my lawyer's office, where my living will and trust was composed and is now hermitically sealed in a vault. A daily reminder that I am inching closer and closer to the Big Dirt Nap.

I snapped the picture because I never thought of proper spinal maintenance as an impulse buy. So I'm not sure Dr. Feelgood's sidewalk marketing stunt brought in any new customers. But I do know that last week, on this very day, the nation was celebrating Martin Luther King Day and his achievements in the battle for equality.

In the advertising world however, those celebrations were largely ignored.

It was business as usual. That is, plantation-style business as usual. I know I'm guilty of hyperbole and I apologize in advance if I offend, but in light of this nation's unfair wealth distribution, the comparison is not all that unwarranted.

Particularly if you were to rip open a typical advertising holding company 10-K Report. There, you would see the startling and criminal inequality of wages.

The plantation owners…er, company officers are obliged to report their income which start in the 7 digit figures but often roll into 8 digit territory. This is a little misleading as that number also includes the value of certain non-liquid remuneration, such as stock options, private jet usage and five star professional escorts.

Labor, that is, the people who actually come up with the ideas, endure the client abuse, eat the cold pizza, write the code, schlep the foam core boards, sacrifice the weekends, assemble the decks, stitch together the wireframes, re-do the ideas and farm the cubicles, also has to be accounted for in those hieroglyphic 10-K reports.

The total sum of their wages is often buried on a line item that looks like a minor expense to the organization.

Paper Clips/Rubber Bands-------------------------------------.0027%
Labor---------------------------------------------------------------.000000019%

This too is an exaggeration.

Jack Welch, the former CEO of GE, once said, "Our best assets ride up on the elevator in the morning and ride down at night."

Today in advertising, no one sees the employees as assets. And if they do ride up in the elevator in the morning, they don't come back down until sometime the next morning. And those are the slackers.

Mind you, all this excess work is not done for the benefit of the sharecroppers, but for the benefit of the shareholders.

Clearly, what this industry needs is a spirited warrior to fight on behalf of the workers. A Martin Luther King type who is willing to speak the truth, start the dialogue and carry the torch for greater wage equality.

I'd be up for the challenge, but I swam 2000 yards yesterday and my back is killing me.

I love football.
And in two weeks I will be going through some painful football withdrawal.
Me and about 100 million other men in America.

Oh and 37 women, too.

But there's also a lot to hate about NFL football.

I hate the boorish behavior.
I hate the poor sportsmanship.
I hate the penalties called on defensive linemen because they glanced the quarterback.

I hate the bazillion dollar salaries.
I hate the diamond earrings.
I hate the touchdown dances by receivers or halfbacks even though their team is down 49-13.

I hate domed stadiums.
I hate astroturf.
I hate the portable sideline heaters carted on the field anytime the temperature dips below 40 degrees.

I hate Colin Kapernick kissing his biceps.
I hate Dez Bryant throwing tantrums like a 5 year old.
I hate these superhuman men who can bench press 600 lbs., but can't summon the strength to lift their own water bottles.

But most of all,
I hate to think of what Johnny Unitas would say if he could see what has happened to the game he played in his $7 high tops.

You know me, I'm not big on fate, the metaphysical or anything remotely associated with the spiritual or supernatural.

The universe is way too mind-blowingly big  for any of that nonsense.

But yesterday, while writing a post about the Chiat/Day offices in Playa Vista…er, Los Angeles, my wife was in the other room conducting one of her raucous spring cleans. I know it's the end of January, but here in Southern California the temperature is in the low 80's.

While purposely making lots of noise, to distract me from my blogging, she miraculously came across our Frank Gehry/Chiat/Day teacup set. The cups and saucers feature the sketch Gehry reportedly made on a napkin before designing the iconic Binocular Building in Venice , which used to house Chiat/Day and is now home to the local offices of Google.

The set, two cups and two saucers, was given to us in 1992 in lieu of a Christmas bonus. If memory serves, there was a lot of grousing in the hallways that year.

"Merry Fucking Christmas!"

"Why didn't they just had me ten bucks and call it a day?"

"I knew blowing off my vacation and missing my daughter's birthday party would pay off."

Of course I never participated in that kind of mutinous employee behavior. I swallowed the party line and chose to believe that someday these cheap Chinese-made pieces of ceramic may have some artistic or architectural value.

So I began hoarding them.

Buying sets from disgruntled employees. And pestering HR for any "extras." The picture above only represents half my collection. I still have three other complete sets, in their cardboard boxes, wrapped with a faux-silk band and emblazoned with a Hank Hinton Skull and Crossbones insignia.

Chances are the teacups and the saucers aren't any more valuable today than they were 20 years ago. But my wife is under the overly-optimistic opinion that they may become a family heirloom one day and finance the college education of our future grandchildren.

And that's worth something.

So this picture made its way around the internets last week.

It's a screen grab from the new movie, "HER"and it shows Joaquin Phoenix walking around Amy Adams fictional office.

Those of you who work in advertising, particularly in Los Angeles, will recognize the surroundings as the TBWA Chiat/Day office in Playa Vista. There was a time when only a select few established ad professionals got in the building or made the payroll.

That was before the agency went public and grew exponentially, hiring every kid out of college who had ever touched a banner ad or had some inkling of digital/social media expertise.

It didn't seem to matter whether they knew the legend of Jay Chiat and Guy Day. Or Bernbach's revolution of the '60's that gave birth to west coast creativity.

They were young.
Enthusiastic.
And they could stylishly sport a beanie cap or a tatted sleeve.

Oh, and they were tantalizingly inexpensive.

Today, it's the largest ad agency in LA. An industry juggernaut. You'd be hard pressed to find someone in Southern California who hasn't received a paycheck from Chiat/Day.

Suffice to say the photo brings back memories, good and bad.

The office that I shared with John Shirley is circled in red. It was perhaps the best of all the cell blocks, which was no misnomer, on Main Street.

It was close enough to Lee Clow's office to hear his occasional and always-colorful rants.

"Why the fuck would anybody use Papyrus? I hate that typeface."

But more importantly, it was closest to the exit tunnel.

With one slick move behind the ancient red Datsun that was parked in front of our abode, John and I could dart behind the car and sneak out of the office before 7 PM and the second shift and the arrival of this cold, shitty foodstuff that Californians insist on calling pizza.

John and I were by no means the smartest people in the creative department, but we weren't the dumbest either.



Update: After writing this post, my wife and I went to a crowded theater to watch HER, a movie that examines the often difficult work that goes into maintaining a relationship. I don't know we accomplished it, but through a series of texts from our teenage daughters and some logistical miscommunications, my wife and I were able to have a full blown fight right there in the theater.

Twenty years ago tonight, my world was quite different.

I was employed as an Associate Creative Director -- most meaningless title ever -- at Team One Advertising. Struggling, like the entire creative staff, to come up with Lexus ideas that would suit Mr. Chikuma. A non-English speaking CMO who looked, and acted, remarkably like Colonel Saito from Bridge over the River Kwai.

Our two story home was merely a one story 1100 square foot California bungalow.

And our two daughters had not yet arrived.

In fact there's a good chance my wife and I had already started our fertility regimen. And the ovulation kit had already been laid out on the bathroom counter. If all the indicators were positive, the morning of January 17th would have been prime baby-making time.  But I'm here to tell you nothing takes the joy out of sex like the temperature-controlled, calendar-driven burden of procreation.

Of course none of that was to be.

Because on January 17, 1994 at exactly 4:31 AM, the previously undiscovered Northridge Thrust Fault decided to start thrusting somewhere along Reseda Blvd.

I literally rolled off the bed as it felt like a train had barreled through my home. A real train, with 4 locomotives and tank cars filled with flammable fuel.

Not one of those light rail sissy trains.

It didn't last long, 20 seconds at most, but long enough for me to believe an atomic bomb had gone off in our all too tiny bathroom. And that we were all going to die. And that I wouldn't get to show Mr. Chikuma the newest concepts.

It should be noted my brain does not function well at 4:30 in the morning. Particularly when I'm huddled with my wife under a doorway for protection and the only thing separating us from the eternal dirt nap is some 1/2 inch plywood and crumbling stucco.

It was only a 6.7 quake but the ground acceleration was one of the highest ever recorded in North America. Causing major damage throughout Southern California.

We were luckier than others. And thanks to FEMA relief money we were able to build a new chimney and replace the ugly sliding doors in our dining room with some previously unaffordable French Doors.

Right now, I'd love to put an office above my garage however the remodeling costs are quite prohibitive. But maybe there's still some life left in that Northridge Thrust Fault. And maybe the Federal government will come by with a blank checkbook. And maybe I can get those soundproof windows that will silence my neighbor's pit bull and my other neighbor's bi-polar late night power tool usage.

A man can dream, can't he?

Radiation emanating from the busted Fukushima Power Plant notwithstanding, I love fresh fish caught in the deep waters of the Pacific.

Salmon, tuna, yellowtail, squid, I'll devour it all.

I love fish so much I won't even wait for it to be cooked. I'll eat it raw like some hairy, barrel-chested grizzly waking up from 4 months of hibernation. By the way, my wife concurs with that description.

It's safe to say we have visited all the sushi restaurants on the west side of Los Angeles.

From the elegant and expensive slivers of fish at K-Zo to the down and dirty casual fare at Yokohama. There was a time we'd take our daughters to West Little Tokyo off Sawtelle Blvd. But now the area has been overrun by Japanese hipsters and their laughable beards. And the oddly dressed harajuku girls.

The eye candy is fun but Japanese kids love to smoke cigarettes. And the stench of burnt tobacco does not complement the fresh, healthy aura of raw fish.

So last week we did something different. We boarded the train at the Expo station. That's not the different thing. We've actually been riding the line since the day it opened. We love being able to go from our home in Culver City to the heart of downtown Los Angeles, which is now experiencing a rebirth with restaurants, museums and a host of new metro stations that reek of urine.

Our destination last week was Kula in Little Tokyo.

Or as some of the locals call it Japangeles.

What sets Kula apart form other sushi restaurants is their conveyor belt. You see they don't employ waitresses, OK they have servers that bring out the drinks, but the food comes rolling by on a conveyor belt in a non-stop wave of delicious and eclectic selections.

Something like this:



Each plate that you remove from the belt cost two bucks. And I'm assuming the stacking of empty plates is meant to discourage over-indulgence. Although it had no such effect at the Siegel booth, where we piled high 22 empty plates.

Should you go to Kula, I'd recommend the velvet smooth Salmon Belly and the equally tasty Blue Fin Toro.

As we left the restaurant, I couldn't help wondering if this unique delivery system could be adapted to the advertising world.

Instead of mountainous decks of storyboards, banner ads and rich media engagement units, perhaps we could simply put each separate idea on a little plate and roll them by the clients on a conveyor belt specifically built for the conference room.

Then, instead of trying ram an idea down their throats….er, I mean selling them a concept, they would be free to pick and choose whatever suited their fancy. After all, clients are fond of Frankensteining ideas, this could be a way of making them pay for the privilege.

Last week I finished a project with Lorraine Bracco. I had hoped to meet in her in person, but sadly all our business was transacted over the phone. Had we been in the same room together I would have held out my iPhone and snapped a Smelfi of the two of us.

Did you see what I did there?

Her iconic character from The Sopranos was Dr. Melfi. So I would have taken a picture of Lorraine and myself and called it a Smelfi.

Can you believe people pay me to write words on a piece of paper?

Perhaps it's best that scenario didn't work out. I'm sure I also would have bored her with the tale of how I was a standing member of her SAG-AFTRA union.

Now, I don't attend SAG meetings.
I don't participate in any of their workshops, "Playing Animal Roles and Being the Squirrel."
And I haven't been on an audition since 1999, where I was edged out of the part, Man on Bus with Newspaper.

And yet every year when that SAG union membership card comes up for renewal I gladly whip out the checkbook. I'm sure there are many non-working, non-interested-in-working fellow thespians out there that can tell you why.

It's the Screeners.

This year, we hit the jackpot. For those of you who are civilians, that's the perjorative term we (and I use the term 'we' lightly) actors like to use about people not employed in show business. Screeners are free copies of movies sent out by the studios in an effort to garner important votes for the upcoming awards season.

For the past two weeks we've been binging on high caliber Oscar-worthy movies.

Including:








There were some other chick flicks in the bunch, but I didn't watch them so they're not worth mentioning.

But the math is worth doing. You see my SAG renewal costs me 108 bucks a year. That's tax deductible, so it's really about $72.

Let's say my wife were able to drag me out of the house and convince me to go to 7 movies.
And let's say the Price of admission-- $13.00

That's:

7 movies (2 tickets each) - $13.00 X 14 = $182
Medium popcorn (7) = $35
Medium Diet Coke (7) (reluctantly shared by two) = $21
Parking (7) = $28
Obligatory (7) late night stops at Junior's deli to discuss why she loved the movie and why I hated the formulaic storytelling, including matzo ball soup, pastrami sandwich and some kugel = $150

That's $108 versus $416.

Not to mention the fact that at home, I don't have to sit next to mouth breathers, loud popcorn eaters, or people who can't track a narrative and resort to playing Words with Friends on their iPhones.

Of course the greatest benefit to watching Hollywood movies from the comfort of my own living room can best be summed up in two lines:


And those of you with poor bladder control know exactly what I'm talking about.

I ran into an old friend several weeks ago.
Let's just call him Popeye to protect his identity.

As friends in the ad biz often do, we engaged in a little shop talk.

Who is where.
That works sucks.
He's a butthole.
I got fired from that place.
They fired me, too.

That kind of stuff.

I mentioned to Popeye that I had heard about an interesting job opportunity that he might want to explore. And he started giving it some thought. Thinking aloud he said, "That could be an interesting position. I have the experience. I shower regularly. And I'm good at taking input."

That comment stuck with me.

Not the one about hygiene. The one about input.

I'm not big on input.
In fact, I'm convinced there's too much of it.
Too many cooks in the kitchen.
Too many bureaucratic layers.
Too many people who haven't earned the right to share an opinion, sharing an opinion.

As a result, work has become unfocused. Answering to all constituencies, but satisfying none. If we were smart, and I am implying that we are not, briefing would not be conducted by planners or digital strategists or chief innovation officers. And there would never be a gathering of 10 or more people to sit in a room and watch an "expert" read verbatim from a brief.

If we were smart, we'd sit the creative team down with the CEO -- you know the person who gets to say "yea" or "nay" and have them hash it out for an hour.

Because here's what would happen.

Pressed for time and an upcoming flight to Cleveland to address the shareholders, the CEO would magically blurt out the unique selling proposition. The CEO would have no time for a "deep dive" or a "metric analysis" and a "loop back session." He or she would simply spit out the ONE overriding thought that needs to be conveyed in the commercial or the website or the banner ad or, god forbid, the viral film.

Necessity isn't the mother of invention, brevity is.

The entire painful and laborious process could be short circuited.
The work would get better.
And creatives, like myself, could start looking forward to getting out of bed every morning.

Less input, more output.
That's my motto.

Two weeks ago, an influential bloc of 57 Muslim countries demanded an end to Freedom of Speech here in America. This wasn't reported in The Onion or the Daily Currant or any satirical news source. This is legitimate, as reported in Investors Business Daily .

By the way, these are the same 57 countries that regularly denounce Israel in the UN for its alleged human rights violations while stoning, hanging and regularly butchering their own populace.

The 94-page document, titled "Islamophobia" wants to forbid any material that would suggest Muslims are inclined to violence.

Furthermore, it wants to criminalize any statements that suggest Islam is an inherently expansionist religion.

Keep in mind, this over-reaching document was not written by tongue-flapping, flag-burning, hirsute extremists that are often seen in throbbing mobs on the streets. Or Al Qaeda training camps in Somalia.

This lengthy proposal -- which would obliterate all known notions of sovereignty -- was thought out and written by statesmen, clerics and diplomats, sitting members of the United Nations. You know, the moderates we hear so much about.

If these folks had their way, my incredibly clever and cryptic depiction of Mo-Ham-Ed (seen above) would be a sufficient infraction to have me carted off to a Yemeni jail for the rest of my days.

Now I like falafel and schwarma as much as the next fellow, but I can't subside on those calorie rich foods forever. It puts unsightly pounds on my midsection.

I'm not one of those Fox Newshounds who uses terms like the Lamestream Media or gives any credence to the ridiculous notion that President Obama is in bed with the Muslim Brotherhood, but a story like this deserves more ink than any coverage of Justin Bieber, the Polar Vortex or even the Pope's vision of an enlightened Christianity.

Even though the proposal doesn't stand an infidel's chance in heaven, it is a shot across the bough. It is nothing less than a direct assault on our most cherished right.

Threaten to take away guns and 50% of Americans will be kicking and screaming. But move up the ladder from the Second Amendment to the First and suggest the abridgment of our freedom of speech, you're going to see 100% of Americans with pitchforks and torches in hand. It'll make Black Friday at Walmart seem like a peaceful gathering of Trappist Monks for an afternoon tea.

What's most telling about the document is how it singles out Islam above all other religions. It doesn't seek to ban any criticism of Christianity. Or Hinduism. Or Judaism. The fact is, if you removed the anti-semitic rhetoric from the newspapers in these 57 Muslim countries, you'd have nothing left but the ads for hookahs and burka liquidation sales.

The reasoning is simple. It's because Islam is more than a religion. It is a way of life. It is uniquely intertwined with politics and culture. It is how 1/5 of the planet's population moves through the world.

But here's the flaw in their logic.

The laws of Islam are not universal. And saying they are doesn't make them so.

I'm not Muslim. Nor do I ever intend to be. So I, and chances are you, are not bound by the guidelines set forth in the Quran. And the minute, you, Mr. Sharia-observer seek to enforce your laws on me and other non-believers -- I think you like to call us Kaffir -- well, that's very the definition of expansionism. Moreover, any movement in that direction is certain to raise the specter of violence.

I know a little about religious persecution and have a deep respect for an individual's right to practice their faith. But I won't hesitate, not for one politically incorrect split second, to raise my voice about politics, culture and world views, particularly when those abhorent beliefs bear an uncanny resemblance to 1930's-style Fascism.

If criticizing totalitarianism, the subjugation of women and homosexuals, state-sanctioned anti-semitism, political repression, and violent attacks on African Christians in Mali, Nigeria and South Sudan, makes me an Islamophobe, then yes, I'm an Islamophobe.

If history has taught us anything, we should all be.

That's all I'm going to say on the matter.
I have a bacon cheeseburger coming off the grill.

I try to limit which TV series I get hooked on. Never saw Game of Thrones. Or got caught up into the Breaking Bad phenomena.

But if writer/director David Simon is involved I'm all in.

My love affair with New Orleans began in 1999.

 We were filming HOME MOVIE , a documentary about eccentric people living in eccentric homes. After an exhaustive research process we located Wild Bill Treacle, a bayou boy who lived on a hand-built houseboat in Cajun country just south of the city.

During the day, often 100 degrees with 110% humidity, we'd film Bill in his swampy surroundings. At night, we'd go back to hotel in the French Quarter and sample the city. We ate like kings. On someone else's dime, no less. We discovered that Bourbon Street was for tourist suckers. And our production crew took us to some of the finer, less known destinations.

Not coincidentally, this was a running gag of Treme.

Years later, I returned to New Orleans to shoot a commercial for Jaguar. Somehow, wink, wink, we managed to get all our filming done early. Giving us ample time to go on a Mint Julepathon.

A $12 artisanally-poured Louisiana mint julep is a thing of beauty. But it goes down even smoother when it can all be expensed back to the Jaguar Motor Company.

Excessive drinking and shady finances were also explored on Treme.

And of course New Orleans is all about incomparable music and the food. And that's what made Treme such an outstanding show. Because it wasn't like watching an episode of TV. It was more like sitting down to a plate full of crawfish, a bucket of ice cold beers and the Pete Fountain band playing onstage.

When it was done, you felt full.

But now that it's over, I'm feeling a little empty.

If you missed Treme the first time, make sure you give it a go when HBO decides to rerun it. Here's one of my favorites scenes.

Consider this a delicious, melancholy appetizer…


Last year, at this very time, I was entering a little bit of hell known as the agency review.

I was hired by RP& to help on their defense of the Acura account. The new CMO at American Honda had come in and despite robust sales, declared he was unhappy with the work at RP& and was going to explore other options to "increase sales in exponential terms."

How good were things at Acura at the time?

Well, according to Jeff Conrad, Vice President at Acura Sales, "December (2012) was another month of tremendous sales growth." Adding, "Acura is primed for even more success in 2013."

These are quotes taken from the Honda Media Newsroom .
There will be a lot more from that site later on.

And yet, for all that cheerful optimism, the folks at Acura thought it necessary to shake things up. And so, they changed agencies. Which is definitely their prerogative. Though as a freelancer who had produced more than a dozen spots for RP&, I wasn't so thrilled to see the client go.

We've just closed out 2013, so I was curious to see how that decision played out. And while Adweek and AdAge are busy carrying stories about Vines, innovative open floor seating plans and which agencies employ the most attractive art directors, I decided to engage in a little fact-based journalism.

What I found is nothing less than astounding.

First, let's examine the Year Over Year sales growth for Acura while they were at RP& in the year 2012. I'm not great at making slick charts, so I hope you'll excuse the primitive nature of my handiwork.

June………..20.2%
July………...22.4%
Aug………...28.1%
Sept………...29.9%
Oct…………27.7%
Nov………..27.2%

Dismal, right?
I can certainly understand why the handsomely-paid Acura brass would call for an immediate review and throw RP& and the 100 or so dedicated professionals responsible for such abject failure to the curb.

Now, let's look at the past year, 2013, and the same 6 month time period under the creative management of the new agency.

June………5.5%
July……….7.4%
Aug……….7.7%
Sept……….4.4%
Oct………..5.6%
Nov……….6.8%

I'm no Ben Bernanke, but something seems amiss. The media might choose to ignore this. And the new ad agency will surely put some topspin on it. But I've spent enough time around car dealers -- sadly -- to know they're not interested in brand awareness. Or intention to buy. Or sales funnels. They're interested in moving sheet metal.

Plus, they know how to read a chart better than I do.

And in the words of Ricky Ricardo, "someone has got some splaining' to do."


It's a new year.
And like a lot of you I'm promising to make changes and create a new me.

Part of that is what I choose to put into my body.

And it's why I've decided to eat only foods that have been grown or killed. It's a simple premise and one that I think I can live up to.

I've battled excess weight my entire life. And have on several occasions been able to get to my optimal poundage of 179. Of course I've never been able to maintain that number, which according to my friends is a good thing. Many of whom commented, "you looked too thin and not very healthy."

I think that had more to do with the Euro-cut suits and pencil thin ties I began to wear. My body was just not built for 32" inch waist dungarees…I'm sorry, jeans.

Also not sure my chosen method of extreme weight loss was the most medically sound.

In the past I would run 3-4 miles a day.
Everyday.
Supplemented by swimming.
Weightlifting.
And the consumption of mass quantities of protein. I swore off all carbohydrates and found myself cracking open cans of tuna for breakfast.

I embraced the ketosis and would often revel at my neon yellow urine.

Of course a routine like that is difficult to maintain. Once I broke down and ate a single rice cake which immediately ballooned in my stomach and added 25 lbs. to my frame.

So now the battle begins again.

I often delude myself by saying, "I'm fat but fit." And there's evidence to support that claim. Last week, we were visiting family in Northern California. At the hotel gym, I took a fitness test on one of the cardio machines. The computer said my fitness level was high and my VO2 max level was 47. Which, as you can see from the chart below, is very good for a man of my age, 43.


I don't want to be fat but fit.
I want to be fit and fit.

So I'm getting back to my Neanderthal roots. If it wasn't butchered or harvested, I'm not eating it.

I wonder what kind of beer the cavemen drank?

In December, the advertising industry lost two legendary men.

First, there was Jim Schmidt of Downtown Partners in Chicago. I only knew Jim through Facebook. We exchanged commentary on the sad state of our industry and shared many of the same views regarding the decline of creativity and the ruthless rise of financial efficiency.

I suspect if I knew him better we could have had some spirited back and forth regarding his 2nd city and my first, NYC.

Jim's passing was followed by the loss of Mike Hughes. I didn't know Mike either. But I did run into him and his wife at the Sundance Film Festival in 2001. I stopped him on the streets of Park City and introduced myself. He said it was unnecessary since he knew of me and my work.

That floored me.

I was also taken by all the kind words written and spoken on behalf of Jim and Mike in the days following their deaths. And have always found this to be the oddest of practices. How much better it would be if we shared words of appreciation with people while they're above ground.

In that spirit I'd like to share a story about the gruff one, Bob Kuperman.

December of 1997 was quite a festive time at TBWA Chiat/Day in Los Angeles. Arguably, one of the best years in the agency's history. In addition to being named Agency of the Year, we were firing on all cylinders; doing groundbreaking work for every account, including Apple, Taco Bell, PlayStation, Levi's, and ABC.

To show their appreciation, Chiat brass handed out fat bonus checks to employees who had contributed to the agency's success.

I'm sure there are many of you who are new to the business and are unfamiliar with this archaic practice. I suggest you ask your parents or consult Wikipedia about the definition and nature of a "bonus check."

Without disclosing any numerical specifics, my partner and I were given a jaw-dropping bonus. That is until I did the math in my head and realized how the agency would leverage the success and PR bonanza of our ABC campaign to win new business and secure millions in additional revenue.

I was grateful. But I also knew at that particular moment, the stars were aligned in a way they never would again.

It was as if I were a baseball pitcher who had won 25 games in the last year of his contract and was about to face the juicy prospect of free agency.

So I did what I had never done before, I asked for more.

I tiptoed, as much as a girthy man of my size can tiptoe, up to Bob Kuperman's office. He was President of the LA office. I asked if he had a minute. He invited me in and told me to close the door. I thanked him profusely for the end of year bonus. I said as a one time gesture it was incredibly generous.

He, being wise in the ways of negotiation, said, "But."

Then I stammered something about a future and wanting to take on more responsibility, blah, blah, blah.

Kupe knew exactly what I was getting at.

"You want a raise. What number do you have in mind? Tell me." ( He might have added the word asshole, but that was just one of his many NY terms of endearment.)

It was the Sicilian Gambit and it caught me completely off guard.

I didn't have number in mind, because frankly I didn't foresee the conversation going in that direction. I blurted out a number -- probably too low -- and he answered, "Done."

A bonus and a raise.
That in itself would have been plenty.
But then Kupe gave me something even more precious, trust.

"This is your account. You and you partner are the voice of ABC. You get the final say on what goes out the door and what gets on the air. Anybody gives you any shit, you let me know."

I swallowed hard.

"One more thing. Don't fuck it up."

All these years later and that has stuck with me. And what resonates most was Kupe's sense of fairness. Bob did what most in his position never do, he managed downward. He looked out for the employees coming up through the ranks. That is a rare occurrence.

If there's one thing that would improve the current dismal state of the advertising industry, it's not the end of open plan offices. Or shorter hours. Or even higher salaries. It's just a simple sense of fair play.

Kuperman is retired now.
But if he ever got back in the business, I'd work for him a heartbeat.

And there aren't too many people I'd say that about.


The next day, Greenberg had some explaining to do at the fertility doctor’s office. But before she could start sassing him, he turned the tables on the doctor who majored, and minored, in labia.

“For eight months now I’ve been tugging at myself so we could fill up the turkey baster and for eight months we’ve come up with zilch. Why don’t you tell us what’s going on, Doc? Why are we still here? And why are there two of us when there should be three of us?”

Mrs. Greenberg was taken aback by his forcefulness. And not just a little bit turned on. The gynecologist was thunderstruck. Her tone was decidedly different.

“Well, the science of fertility has never been exact. And it never will be,” she said, adding “perhaps it’s time we take this to the next level.”

Greenberg had no idea what that meant but seemed encouraged that his little burst of anger had elicited a reaction. And some respect.

“Ok,” he said, “what’s the next level?”

“Hormone shots. By enhancing the estrogen levels there’s a good chance we can produce more eggs. And more eggs give us a greater probability of pregnancy. Perhaps even multiple pregnancy, like twins or triplets.”

Greenberg was elated, “Damn, why didn’t we do this before? We could get the whole family thing done in one fell swoop. A package deal, that’s what I’m talking about.”

“The shots are expensive,” said the doctor, “$1,000 each.”

Greenberg reeled at the price. And was even more deflated when he found out they were not reimbursed by his company’s medical insurance.

“But there is a Plan B.”

The doctor explained that while pharmaceutical companies in the US were charging exorbitant fees for the hormone shots, they were also available across the border. She told the Greenbergs that the same $1,000 shot sold at a pharmacy in Santa Monica was being sold in Tijuana for less than one-tenth the cost. They didn’t even need a prescription. They could simply walk into a pharmaceria, lay down a C-note and walk away with the exact same medicine that was under tight FDA restrictions.

“That’s great,” said Greenberg, “we go down to Mexico, get the stuff, bring it back here to your office, and you’ll inject my wife?”

“Uh, not quite.”

Greenberg was not putting one-plus-one together.

“You’re not allowed to bring this medicine back across the border. The injection will have to be administered while you are in Tijuana.”

Greenberg scratched his chin, “So you would come with us down to Mexico? How does that work?”

“Oh no, I’m not going to Tijuana. I once bought a serape down there, thing was infested was fleas. Took me two months of soaking in Calamine lotion to get over that, I don’t do Mexico.”

“Am I hearing this right? You want us to go to Mexico buy the $1,000 hormone for $100 and then you want me to inject my wife with the shot?” asked Greenberg.

“That’s the ticket.”

She could tell from his reaction that was not the ticket.

“I’m not good with needles at all. And needles, in Mexico? In Tijuana? That’s the trifecta of No, No and No.”

“I don’t know what else to tell you, Mr. Greenberg.”

“Well, I have no similar loss of words – Good bye.”

With that Larry Greenberg took hold of his wife’s hand and guided her out of the doctor’s office. As they rode down the elevator she noticed in him a fierce determination. It was as if he knew exactly what they were going to do. She had no idea. He was tight-lipped until they reached the car.

“Your days as a media sales rep are over.”

“I can’t quit my job, we need the money,” said Mrs. Greenberg.

“We can get by on my salary. We’ll tighten the belt, eat out less often and spend more time together at home. We don’t need more money. We need less stress.”

“Are you sure?”

“I’ve never been surer.”

“OK, I’ll give my two weeks notice tomorrow.”

“We’re not waiting until tomorrow. And we’re not waiting another two weeks. I want you to quit working so we can start living. As a family.”

He dropped her off at her office. Before he drove away, she grabbed him by the back of the head and kissed him like she hadn’t kissed him in years. If he wasn’t sure about this sudden surge of strong headedness, he was now.

As he got off the elevator at his office, Smithwick strolled up behind him and clutched him by the elbow.

“Where have you been?”

“Personal business.”

“Well, here’s some business you might want to take personally: Coughlin put the account up for review.”

“That bitch!”

For six months Greenberg crisscrossed the country, sat in focus groups, and listened to her dull stories about the new drainage system she was installing at her summer home. He smiled when he didn’t feel like smiling. He made small talk. And did his best to make her feel like there was nowhere else on Earth he’d rather be, when the complete opposite was true. He rewrote copy. He watered down ideas. He swallowed his pride until there was no pride left.

And he did all this while dry humping himself into little plastic cups with the hope of bringing a new Greenberg into this world to experience the same pleasure.

And this is how the world returns the favor?

“Jenkins wants to see you in his office.”

“Probably to talk about how we were going to defend the account. This should be great,” replied Greenberg.

Of course, that’s not what Jenkins had in mind.

Twenty minutes later, Greenberg walked out of his office with a three-week severance check in his back pocket and a sinkhole in his stomach large enough for a small mammal. As he walked to the mailroom to get some empty cardboard boxes, his cell phone rang.

“I did it, honey. I quit. No notice. No questions. No nothing. It was great.”

Greenberg bit his lip.

“I told you. Everything is going to work out,” he assured her.

They made love that night.

  And they made a baby, the old fashioned way. The way only two clueless, unemployed people with no foreseeable income and no future in advertising can.


The next day, Greenberg found himself, with Smithwick and Karen Coughlin, at the Super KMart on the outskirts of Boise. The store was the size of three football stadiums. And sold everything under the sun. Greenberg never understood the novelty of buying your breakfast cereal where you also buy your shotgun ammo.

As the store manager was showing the trio the exclusive end cap aisle display for Nestle Coffee Mate Flavored Creamers, he got a call from his wife. There was a mix up at the Pico Robertson lab and the label on his cup of sperm fell off.

Mrs. Greenberg did not go into too many details. She said what was done, was done. They had to deal with the present. And the present was pressing, as her ovulation kit indicated, time was of the essence.

“The doctor put me in touch with a company that does overnight delivery of medical supplies and equipment.” said Mrs. Greenberg. Adding, “They have special freezing techniques.”

“What?” said Larry.

“I want you to buy a small piece of Tupperware, go back to the hotel, fill the Tupperware, seal it and rush it over to their facility near the airport.”

“You’re not serious, are you?” asked Larry.

“Do I sound not serious?”

Larry wrote down the instructions and was careful to get every detail. He got off the phone and waited for the Super K Mart retail manager to finish his spiel.

“If we add the shelf talkers, I’d recommend the K9000 Series, we think we can increase floor traffic and impulse sales by 27%. You could have your own island of caffeination domination.”

“That’s excellent,” said Ms. Coughlin.

“Of course it all depends on having the right messaging,” added the manager.

“Listen, this is all very encouraging and fascinating too, but I have an emergency and have to get back to the Comfort Suites,” said Larry.

Karen was not happy. “This is important stuff, Larry.”

“It is. And I’d like nothing more than to find new ways of moving the Happy Hazelnut, but like I said it’s an emergency.”

“The Happy Hazelnut, the Vivacious Vanilla and the Mucho Mocha are kind of emergencies, too.”

“I understand that, Karen.”

“I’m not sure you do, Larry,” she pressed. “What is so urgent that you need to rush back to the hotel?”

“It’s a motel not a hotel because your efficiency expert keeps nickel and diming us, so let’s be clear on that. And if you really must know, I need to go back to the motel to masturbate into a little plastic cup.”

Larry realized immediately that he was not using his ‘inside voice’ and many Super KMart shoppers, who had come for the discounted shoes, bulk mayonnaise and two-for-one specials on tube socks, were going home with quite a story to share with friends and family.

An hour later, Larry found himself in the rental car rushing to the airport with his clearly labeled ‘sample’ of little Larrys tucked beneath his T-shirt which, according to his wife, would maintain the proper temperature until it was flash frozen and put on a plane back to Los Angeles.

As he navigated through a fortunate string of green lights his imagination got the worst of him. What if he were to be T-boned by an oncoming car? The first responders would arrive on the scene to find his body covered in glass shards, caked blood and fresh semen. That wouldn’t play well in the papers. And his snarky advertising friends would have a field day.

A Hit Jerk & Run, the headlines would shout.

He eased up on the gas pedal, tightened his seat belt and made a much more attentive check of all his mirrors.

Larry’s boys successfully made the trip from Boise to Los Angeles.  They did not, however, complete  the journey and finish the last 1/,1,000,000 th of a mile to fertilize Mrs. Greenberg’s egg.

The next few months were not kind to Larry Greenberg.

He was doing his best to stave off an account review. That meant endless visits to supermarkets and big box grocery warehouses. Not to mention after-hours research at focus groups, where casual coffee drinkers would drone on about their choice of coffee creamers. A low interest category if there ever was one. Larry was convinced he had discovered the 8th Gate of Hell.

The 9th was not that far behind.

His tour of Southern California’s Whack Shacks grew wider and wider. If there was anything more humiliating than walking into a building, signing some paperwork and then being led off to a room – in most cases by a woman – to milk yourself, he couldn’t imagine what it would be.

On a cold, rainy Sunday morning, Larry found himself snuggled under the covers, looking forward to a hearty breakfast of salty lox, onion bagels and fresh whitefish salad. This would be followed by a lazy day on the couch watching football. Napping. Noshing. And watching more football.

Mrs. Greenberg had just gone to the bathroom. With his head buried under the pillow, Larry could make out the sounds of her unwrapping an ovulation detection kit. He detested that sound. Minutes later, she emerged from the bathroom. And heeding the unmistakable advice of her urine, told him it was once again time to do the one-handed gland dance.

He threw on a pair of sweat pants, went to the computer and found the only clinic that opened their doors on Sunday for jizzness. He grumbled to himself and started to brew a pot of coffee. But Mrs. Greenberg intervened.

“There’s no time for that.”

She nuked what was left in the carafe and shoved him out the door.

As sperm collection centers went, this one, on the north side of Santa Monica, was unusually small. It was almost impossible to find the office, with not much in the way of signage. When Larry walked in it was quiet. A tall blond woman with long, fire-red fingernails sat behind the desk. Suddenly he was not sure that sweatpants had been the right choice of attire.

He smiled at her, she smiled back and handed him a clipboard with a one-page form to fill out. Then she stood up from the counter and led him down the hallway.

“Follow me.”


She was a full four inches taller than Greenberg. He couldn’t keep his eyes off her legs. Or the black heels she was wearing. They weren’t tall enough to be classified as cheap or trashy, but they were too tall for a Sunday morning, particularly a Sunday when he hadn’t shaved and was wearing a moth-eaten T-shirt.

She led him to a small room and handed him a small plastic cup. He made sure his hand brushed up against hers and wisely made the decision not to crack a joke…

“I might need a bigger specimen cup.”

She pointed out the TV and told him to take as much time as he needed. She closed the door and in a ritual that had become familiar to Greenberg, he double bolted the locks and made sure no one was getting in unannounced.

Greenberg made himself as comfortable as possible. And suddenly the TV screen was flickering. There were no tapes. No awkward choices to make. The porn was simply piped in.

Seven seconds of one couple engaged in oral sex was followed by nine seconds of another couple in a Jacuzzi followed by six seconds of a housewife being drilled by a pizza deliveryman. And then a mailman. And then a plumber. It went on like this for what seemed an eternity.

Greenberg waited. And waited. And waited.

Perhaps the tape was stuck, he thought. Or perhaps this was just an unusually long trailer.

In any case, none of it was helping him get the ball across the finish line. Thankfully, there was no one else in the office but Greenberg and the statuesque blond receptionist/nurse/porn projector. So he did the unthinkable.

He got up from his chair, and with his sweatpants wrapped around his ankles, shuffled over to the door. He flipped the locks and cracked the door open a smidge.

Greenberg inched his face to the crevice.

“Excuse me.”

No response.

Then louder, “Excuse me.”

“Yes, Mr. Greenberg, is there a problem?”

“No problem. No problem whatsoever.”

“Okay.”

“But you can start now.”

“I’m afraid I don’t understand.”

“I’m done with the trailers. You can start the movie now.”

A long silent pause.

Followed by some giggling.

“Mr. Greenberg, that is the movie.”

Now realizing his mistake, Larry slowly shut the door. But before he did, he heard the long leggy blond let out an involuntary cackle of laughter.

He tried returning to the mission, but it was not to be. Whether it was the nature of the short clips, the lack of any character or plot development, or the humiliating reaction from the sperm collection vixen, Larry would never say. He only knew the fight or flight response kicked in and he decided his best option was flight.


He pulled his pants up and made a beeline for the exit door.


  From Beverly Hills, Greenberg drove a short 15 minutes to his office on Wilshire Blvd. He worked at one of the few remaining ad agencies that had not migrated west of Lincoln Blvd. They were an older, established shop with longstanding client relationships, relationships that had stood the test of time. And because they didn’t suffer the wild fluctuations of revenue experienced by other agencies, they rarely had to engage in cutbacks or staff layoffs.

Greenberg grabbed some coffee and settled in behind his desk, hoping the rest of his day would be more routine.

“You’re not going to believe this,” said Sean Smithwick, Greenberg’s management counterpart on the big Nestle account.

“What?” Greenberg shot back.

“They fired Anderson when they found out he was getting kickbacks from the printer. And they put in a new Chief Marketing Officer.”

“Who?” said Greenberg.

“Get this. Coughlin.”

“Who’s Coughlin?”

“You know Coughlin, the girl that used to book all of Anderson’s travel, do his timesheets and fill out his expense reports. Coughlin, his Executive Assistant.”

“You gotta be kidding me. She’s a CMO?”

“Who isn’t a CMO these days?” said Smithwick. Adding, “Better strap in, buddy. Gonna get hairy here for the next few months.”

Greenberg folded his arms over his desk and laid his head down for a much-needed rest.

A week later he and his wife were back in the offices of her gynecologist. The lady doctor mulled over the lab report. She did a line item check on every aspect of his manhood. And, as if to add to his agony, let him stew in silence as she carefully took notes and withheld his results. A second before he was about to explode…she cleared her throat.

“It seems the problem is not with you, Larry. Your boys are swimmers.”

He breathed a sigh of relief. Not too heavy, because he didn’t want his wife to notice. But inside, he was thrilled. If he could have high-fived his penis, he would have done so.

“In fact, and I’m wondering if there’s some kind of mistake here. Your sperm count is unusually high.”

Another high-five.

“Motility is…”

“Motility?” asked Larry.

“That’s the sperm’s ability to move. And yours is, again, unusually high, indicating raised levels of testosterone.”

Larry could not help grinning. Particularly as all these results seemed to annoy the lady doctor to no end.

“In fact, many of your sperm cells have extra long tails, which we don’t see that often.”

“Long tails are good?” asked a very inquisitive Larry.

“For impregnation purposes, long tails are excellent. Frankly, these tests results are not at all what I expected.”

If his wife had not been in the room, Larry would have taken little Lawrence out of his pants, laid it on the desk and not put it away until the doctor personally apologized. But his cell phone rang and there was an emergency back at the office that required his immediate attention.

“Before you go back to the office, I need you to stop by the Pico Robertson Lab for another sample,” said the doctor.

“Another sample? I thought you just said my boys weren’t the problem?”

“They’re not. Which means we have to step up to a modified in vitro procedure. And we’ll need to prepare your sperm for an injection.”


“But I have to get back to work.”

“You have some more important work to do first. Pico Robertson Lab. It’s near Doheny.”

Larry stopped at a newsstand. He wasn’t going to have a repeat of his previous unpleasant experience with the U.S. News & World Report. He was going in prepared for the worst. Overcompensating, Larry reached to the top of the rack and grabbed a copy of the filthiest hardcore magazine he could find, Slutty Sluts Get Their Slut On. On the cover, a handcuffed woman in red leather chaps was being force-fed a foot-long Polish sausage.

He wouldn’t need it.

The lab at Pico Robertson, in the heart of Little Jerusalem, was 180 degrees from the sterile surroundings in Beverly Hills. The nurse led him back to a room that looked unlike anything he had ever seen.

The walls were covered from floor to ceiling in black velour. The ceiling was covered with black velour. And the room was glowing with a purplish light from a small lava lamp tucked in the corner.

As he adjusted himself to the surreal, almost womb-like environment the nurse unveiled a credenza featuring a TV monitor, a VCR deck, and no less than 200 VHS tapes of the latest and greatest in porn offerings. The tapes had thoughtfully been arranged in alphabetical order and the selection covered everything from naughty threesomes to milfy MILFs.

The nurse smiled at Larry and left him to the business at hand.

He could hardly believe his good luck. He felt like a kid in a candy store. There was so much to choose from he didn’t know where to start. Then he reminded himself that porn was porn. So he went for the first title that struck his funny bone, Balling for Dollars.

It had some vague connection to bowling and was a clear indication the pornmakers in the San Fernando Valley were running out of ideas. Nevertheless, there were a few steamy scenes of women in bowling shirts briefly getting frisky with the pin-chasers working the machinery behind the alleys.

Upon completion of his duties Greenberg gave serious thought to taking a nap, waking up 20 minutes later and going at it for another round. He had his eye on another movie, In and Out of Africa. Why let all this black velour go to waste, he figured. Why not shock the doctor and fill the cup all the way to the top?

His phone rang. It was Smithwick.

“Where the hell are you? And what’s that moaning?”

“I’ll be there in 10 minutes.”

Greenberg drove back to the office along Pico Blvd. where the sidewalks were teeming with large Orthodox Jewish families. Many of the moms were pushing strollers. Behind the strollers there were often gaggles of little girls in long dresses and skinny little boys sporting thick black wool coats and exposed tzitzits. This backward lot of 19th Century holdouts seemed to be fruitful. They were certainly multiplying. Why, he wondered, were he and Mrs. Greenberg unable to make another Greenberg?

“Coughlin’s on a rampage.” said Smithwick. “She wants to know why our Coffee-Mate flavored creamers are not selling in the Midwest and the Northwest territories.”

“They’re not selling because they taste like shit. And they’re expensive. And people are buying their coffee in coffee shops,” Greenberg offered.

“You want to tell her that? Or you want to run home and pack a bag? Because we’re on a plane tonight for a whirlwind tour of the regional offices,” said Smithwick.

“Tonight?”


“Hello, Boise.”

(Usually, or at least for the last 6 years, I have taken this time --between Xmas and New Year's--to recharge the batteries and let the reader of RoundSeventeen fend for himself. Or herself. By that I mean I've lazily reprinted posts from the past. But this week I'm doing something different. I've selected a story from the book that you haven't purchased and plan to excerpt it for your reading pleasure. It's my gift to you. It's also my hope that you will be sufficiently enticed to visit the amazon page and plunk down 13 fuckin' dollars. Is that too much to ask?)




“There may be a problem with your sperm.”

This was not the diagnosis Greenberg wanted to hear. He and Mrs. Greenberg had been trying to make a baby for the past two and a half years, since 1995. There were messy ovulation kits. Calendars. Vaginal thermometers. The tiny bathroom in their 3rd floor condominium could barely contain all the over-the-counter fertility paraphernalia.

And yet, for all their efforts, including the obligatory early morning schtupp, they had nothing to show for it. It was all a swing and a miss.

Mrs. Greenberg checked out fine. Her fallopian tubes were fallopianing. Her eggs were good, fertile eggs. And her plumbing system got the Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval.

Her lady doctor, who had called for the couple to come in for a joint consultation, pointed the finger at Larry Greenberg. More accurately she pointed the finger towards the region below his belt.

His first trip to a gynecologist went exactly as he thought it might.

If two and a half years of fruitless fornicating didn’t make Greenberg self conscious about his virility, the accusatory sneer of his wife’s (clearly) lesbian doctor surely did. She handed him a business card and instructed him to set up an appointment right away.

“Let’s see what’s going on down there.”

Again she pointed to the area below his belt.

“Or, what’s not going on down there.”

Greenberg knew of the sperm banks discreetly located throughout the Westside of Los Angeles, but he had never been to one. When he first moved to California and took a room as a boarder at a UCLA fraternity house, he met some of the brothers who made a living at the local “whack shack.”

They never studied. They never worked. They drank beer and smoked pot. And had plenty of money to fuel their pastime. All they had to do was walk down Gayley Ave., past the Chabad House, engage in some hand-to-gland combat and collect a check. They invited Greenberg to accompany them on one of their masturbatory sojourns, but he preferred to earn his money the old fashioned way – slaving as a dishwasher at the local Straw Hat Pizza.

Now, 15 years later, against all odds, he found himself in the lobby of the Beverly Hills Medical Services Laboratory. As he filled out the bundle of paperwork attached to the clipboard, his mind wandered.

The rational side of his brain knew that behind the locked doors he would not find a harem of short-skirted, leggy nurses ready to assist him with the precious extraction.

On the other hand, he was in Beverly Hills, a city known to indulge its residents, and suspected the lab had gone to extraordinary lengths to provide a comfortable, even posh, environment that would yield the maximum payload.

He envisioned plush, microfiber couches in a secure dimly lit room. A room endowed with the world’s widest selection of pornographic stimuli. He even pictured a sleek, Japanese-designed custom electronic sleeve that would offer personalized, hands-free collection. The Tugatron 7000™.

All very conceivable for a sperm collection center located in one of the world’s richest zip codes.

But Greenberg was wrong on all counts. Nurse Ratchet -- he decided that was her name the second he saw her -- came to the reception area and called out his name.

“Laaaaary. Laaaarrrry Greenberg.”

She led him back behind a wall of clear acrylic that had the appearance and thickness of bulletproof glass. They zigzagged down a hallway lined with paintings, the kind of paintings you would only find in a medical laboratory hallway. The nurse opened the door to what looked to be a regular bathroom, an oversized regular bathroom with no special accommodations, with the exception of a tubular stainless steel handrail built to comply with the state’s code for the handicapped.

“Wash and dry your hands thoroughly. Then, get it all in the cup.”

“Wait, this must be a mistake,” he thought.

“And no lubricant. None,” she said before shutting the door behind her.

The room was exceedingly bright. The fluorescent light ricocheted off the cinder block walls. Dimensionally, it was not that far off from the standard two-person jail cell one might find at Folsom or San Quentin. There was nothing but a sink, a toilet, an all-aluminum table chair and a long narrow table that spanned the length of the tiny room.

Atop the table, there were three magazines.

They didn’t put a lot of thought into the design of this room. Nor did they seem to consider its rather unique function. But at least they had the foresight to provide something in the way of visual stimulation.

Suddenly there was the roar of a toilet flush from the bathroom on the other side of the cinder blocks.

Greenberg looked at the three magazine covers spaced evenly across the long table.

The Economist

U.S. News & World Report

Harvard Business Review

One part of Larry Greenberg wanted to scream. The other, more sensible part of Larry knew that screaming would draw unwarranted attention and in effect say, “I can’t make babies. Something is going on with my little men. So now I’m in a refurbished janitor’s closet where they want me to dry hump myself into a little plastic cup!”

He didn’t want to do that.

He locked the door. And then he threw the deadbolt into place. The last thing he needed was some overly inquisitive lab technician with a corridor key to accidentally walk in on him while he was flying solo.

He yanked about a dozen and a half paper towels from the dispenser above the sink, crumpled them up, wet them down, and stuffed them in the crevice between the bottom of the door and the floor stop. His mind raced with ugly possibilities. Somebody could be walking in the hallway, drop their car keys or a quarter, bend over to pick it up, peer through the crack under the door and spot Greenberg solus in flagrante delecto.

Not only could that happen, the way the morning was transpiring, Greenberg fully expected it to happen.

Acting out of extreme precaution, he pushed the featherweight aluminum chair against the back of the door. Greenberg would often tell people, “If he was in for a dime he was in for a dollar.” And on the issue of self-pleasuring privacy in a public setting, he was in for a buck seventy-five.

Before the mission began he took one last meticulous look at the cinder block wall. He slowly and carefully scanned the wall with the palm of his hand, delicately searching for any pinholes, where a hidden camera with a full battery and ample memory could be placed.

What if, again his mind raced, the Beverly Hills Medical Lab was an elaborate front? Maybe they were secretly selling footage of their patients masturbating? Could be an entire underground operation. Perhaps supplying the filthy tapes to fetishists in Cambodia? Or Laos?

Laos always seemed to Greenberg to be a place where old men, tired of the jungle, the red sticky mud, the constant monsoonal rain, and the day in/day out consumption of boiled monkey liver and rice, would entertain the notion of watching affluent and unsuspecting Americans jerking off behind closed doors.

Satisfied that the room was clean, it was time to get down to business.

Greenberg picked up the U.S. News & World Report. It was the magazine with the least written and the most photographic material. He threw it on the floor in front of him, undid the buckle of his pants and squatted on the cold aluminum chair.

In a feat of flexibility he did not know he had, Greenberg spread his legs wide, so that he could keep one foot solidly on the wall and the other wedged into the doorway, in case the lock, the deadbolt and the forest of wet crumpled paper towels did not suffice.

He fiddled through the pages hoping to find a picture of Madonna or Princess Diana, or some up-and-coming actress of the time, but could only find a spread on Queen Elizabeth. And an in-depth interview with Hillary Clinton.

Her Royal Highness was sporting a pink dress that bared the bottom half of her 70-year-old gams. The First Lady was wearing one of her signature pantsuits. Out of respect for the crown, Greenberg went with the younger lass from Arkansas.

A full 30 minutes later, the tug of war was over. Later, he joked he spent more ‘sexy time’ with Hilary Clinton than he had ever done with his own wife.

He gingerly screwed the cap on the plastic cup and placed it in the pass-thru vault, per the instructions of Nurse Ratchet. He double-checked the label on the cup. If some medical assistant were to make a mistake, he’d have to repeat the most humiliating, most joyless experience he’d ever had with his penis.


As he exited the clinic he drew his baseball cap tight across his brow in the hope no one would recognize him. The last thing he wanted was to run into a friend or a colleague and engage in some street side chitchat, particularly when he was sporting that telltale face that screams, “I just masturbated into a plastic cup.”

We've reached that point in the year where I have officially run out of gas. I simply don't have the energy to work up a good rant. Or I'm too hungover from last night's binge of Maker's 46 to throw down today.

Nevertheless I have an obligation, albeit a self-imposed one, to deliver on some funny.

So today, I'm turning to the kids.

As I've mentioned before I'm a sucker for click bait. Last week while checking out an article entitled "Wait Til You See The Booty's On These Mommys" I stumbled across a link to "Hilarious Drawings by Kids." You're just two clicks away from seeing the entire collection, but for now and to close out 2015, I've curated my favorites.


Bobby is only 18 months old  but has already mastered spelling. It won't be long before young Robert is pulled over to the side of the road and asked to spout all 26 letters.

In reverse order.



Young Tiffany wants to follow in her mother's high-heeled footsteps. Mom is a rainmaker and seems to be entertaining many men who look like Odell Beckham.


If you do visit the Buzzfeed collection of hilarious kid drawings, you're going to see a lot of cocks. More cocks than you'd ever want to see. Not that there's anything wrong with that.


Tiffany, it appears, had two of her drawings selected.

And finally there's this from stubborn Ralph who is very self aware for a 5 year old.

If you came here for a review of the new Star Wars movie or some other gushing fanboy drivel about the over-hyped sci-fi franchise, you came to the wrong place.

I simply found a good pun and couldn't resist using the topical ploy.

There was a little voice inside my head telling me not to, but I ignored that little voice and most others when it comes to telling me what I should or should not write.

This goes a long way to explain why I am still living in Culver City, why I drive an 8-year old car, why I am struggling to put two kids through college and why I spend my weekends creating banner ads or knocking out social media ideas for the local mattress store.

Or, if I may quote my student evaluation from my 3rd grade teacher:

"Rich does not like being told what to do. And he eats too many Ding Dongs and Yodels."

Recently I was reading a HuffPo article written by a colleague who is funnier, thinner and has more hair than me. He was a copywriter but left the ad world a long time ago to pursue a career in TV writing. That was a path I always thought I'd find myself on.

This former copywriter, let's call him Ryan for those of you who like to solve mysteries, details his 20+ year journey through the TV world. As you might expect there were stops and starts and ups and downs and lots and lots of network notes.

"This could be funnier."

"Can't say that."

"The character is too dark. Can he have a lisp and a pet canary?"

If you think that makes no sense consider who is writing these network notes -- Network People. Executives, development people, political opportunists who by and large have never, ever written or created anything in their entire overpaid, self-important careers.

And yet that is de rigueur in the world of television and movie making. Frankly, I'm surprised that disgruntled postal workers were never supplanted by disgruntled sitcom writers.

Surely, you say, there are similar situations in the ad world. And of course, you'd be correct. But here's the difference. A TV script or a movie screenplay entails days, weeks and sometimes months of thinking. Remove one thread and the whole thing can fall apart.

A commercial is much more disposable. Kill one joke and I can replace it with another. Hell, I've got a million of them. Somewhere on this hard drive.

Perhaps it's why I enjoyed writing my book of short stories without the aid of literary agent, a publisher, an editor or even a proofreader.

"Yes, I could omit the story about my masturbatory adventures at Southern California's whack shacks in order to produce a baby, but I don't want to and it stays in."

And it's why, after close to seven years I am still plugging away at this inconsequential blog. I enjoy having the freedom to say, think and write whatever the fuck I want. It's the most satisfying job in my entire career.

I just wish it came with proper dental care.

By now many of you have gotten soused at the company Christmas party.

Media companies have showered you with their year end swagger.

And your supervisor has given you the well-worn speech about why there are no bonuses and the attendant "belt-tightening", "sagging economy" and the "fractured disintermediated landscape yielding unpredictable revenue streams."

But you're probably thinking to yourself it's not really Christmas until Siegel rolls out another December yarn about the age old Caganer.

As a refresher, the Caganer, or Shitter for our non-Hispanic friends, is a staple character in any Nativity Scene; as important as Mary, the virginal mother, Joseph, the cuckolded husband and Old Man in Robe #2, the mysterious bearer of Myhr.

If you look closely at many official nativity scenes you will see the Shitter standing just outside the hut, or the manger, or whatever that half-assed lean-two is called.

While the Baby Jesus is being born, the Shitter is also busy with a delivery of his own. He drops a coiled Lincoln Log onto the land signifying that the Saviour has arrived. And, that the heavy mutton and potato soup he ate for lunch has successfully completed its digestive journey.

I mean no offense by any of this. I'm simply regurgitating -- for lack of a better word -- the tale of the Caganer as I understand it from my scholarly Wikipedia research.

The 25 foot high Caganer pictured above makes regular annual appearances at a mall in Northern Spain.

Not to be outdone, residents of another town deep in Catalonia, have painted a 40 foot high Caganer of their own. Loop it and it can be your own yule tide log video.

There's also been a clever nativity scene meme floating around the Internet. As you might have guessed, the Caganer or even any allusion to the Caganer was sadly omitted.

That is, until now.

I'm contemplating a small construction project around the house.

More specifically, I'd like to build a fence around my two monstrously huge air conditioning units which now sit on the driveway and take up as much space as a 1966 Simca.

Of course pouring concrete has never been one of my strong suits. The last time I did it was under the watchful eye of my father who, too cheap to hire skilled workers, had my brother and I do all the hard labor under threat of immediate eviction. Or having to watch our shows on the Black and White TV.

Anyway, back to my new a/c units which would not fit in the state of Rhode Island.

I quickly abandoned the fence idea in favor of a nicely constructed slatted box that I could easily place over the ugly oversized condensers.

In my mind the box, sturdily built from dark Brazilian mahogany could also double as a patio table, thereby amortizing the cost for the ridiculously expensive wood.

I saw myself in the garage squaring off beautifully hand selected 4X4 knot-free posts. Measuring and mitering precision cut 1X1 angle supports. Then carefully and meticulously screwing in the imported slats with my newly purchased Lithium battery portable hand drill with extra torque for those hard to reach places.

My wife, who has borne witness to many examples of my past handiwork, had another idea. She went to the computer and dragged out a file of pictures I had compiled of Russian construction failures.

"This," she said, "is why you're not going anywhere near this project"

It'd be easy to pile on the hatewagon and do a scathing post about the Coiffed One. But frankly, like Mr. Trump's scalp, there's not a lot of uncovered territory.

Instead, I'd like to spend a few moments on this assclown.

His name is Alex Jones. You might not know of him, but millions of his fellow conspiracy theorists do.

We just marked the 3rd anniversary of the horrific mass shooting in Sandy Hook. And I recently came across an article about Alex Jones who shared his twisted theories about the killing of 20 schoolchildren that was allegedly faked in order to further the cause of gun control.

Despite the blood, the carnage and the unconscionable loss of innocent life, Mr. Jones insists it was all a False Flag -- a staged operation orchestrated by masterminds in the Federal Government. Let's just gloss over the fact that he believes there are masterminds in Washington, DC, the same people who gave us the incomprehensible tax code, can't manage the VA and spend billions of dollars for stealthy fighter jets that don't fly and are not stealthy.

By the way, according to Mr. Jones, the San Bernardino shootings, the Paris Massacre, the Boston Marathon bombing, the Ft. Hood murders, the multiple attacks in Mumbai, the London 7/7 tragedy, and even 9/11, were all False Flags.

Mr. Jones spouts his completely unsubstantiated theories on a syndicated radio show called Info Wars, a little ironic since nothing he claims is backed by any real information.

And yet he has his followers.

Thousands, if not millions, who dine on his diet of half truths, innuendo and veiled anti-Semitism. Listen long enough and you'll hear all about the Illuminati, the Rothschilds, the Trilateral Commission, the Bielderberg Conference, the New World Order, Mossad and the Free Masons.

How do I know about this?

I've made the mistake of tripping into his dark conspiratorial rabbit hole. And it's not very pretty. You could do a little investigating of your own. But it's nothing but a waste of energy and good Internet bandwidth.

You'd be better off watching skateboarders smack their nuts against handrails.

Today is not July 17th.

It's nowhere close to July 17th.

But as sure as the unwanted hair recently shaven from my ear will grow back at an astonishingly fast rate, I will receive a meeting invite for July17th.

The electronic meeting invite has become as ubiquitous as the 5 second pre-roll ad on every Youtube video.

Not long ago, I was contacted by a Creative Service Manager from an out of town agency. She had inquired about my availability, my outrageous day rate and my attitude towards travel and hotel preferences. If awarded the gig, I was told, I'd receive a letter of confirmation and would need to sign an NDA, a nondisclosure form for you laymen.

Before any of those formalities had been dealt with, I had already received a meeting invite.

And that was just the first.

Minutes later, the fastidious production coordinator (I guess they're not Traffic people anymore) had sent me another meeting invite. This one, for a day and a half later, was for a preliminary check in. Not a formal review, just a temperature check so the Associate Creative Directors knew we were headed in the right direction.

Two meeting invites and I hadn't even seen the brief yet.

Ding!

I'm alerted to check my mailbox again.

I thought it could have been from Patagonia. You buy one fleece pullover from these sons of bitches and then they don't leave you alone until you've seen their entire collection of fleece pajamas, fleece underwear and fleece tea cozies.

But it wasn't from Patagonia.

It was a third meeting invite!

Scheduled for the the same day as the Associate Creative Directors soft temperature check in. This meeting was for later in the day. With the regular creative directors. They wanted to make sure any course correction given by the ACDs, just 4 hours earlier, had been executed faithfully.

By this time you'd think the detail-oriented coordinator would have put away the calendar and moved on to Zappos or posted a few more selfies to her Instagram account, but you'd be wrong.

The three previous meeting invites were supplemented with three additional meeting invites, including a telephone call in conference call for 9pm on Sunday night, just 14 hours before the client "tissue" session on Monday morning.

Ding!

I have another email.

It's not from Patagonia. It's not another meeting invite. It's from the Creative Service Manager informing me the agency has given the assignment to an internal team and my services and my attendance for the six previously mentioned meetings will not be necessary.

Maybe I'll play some golf on July 17th.

Can you feel it?

It's coming.

The much-anticipated Christmas/New Year's break. Or the period advertising people refer to as the most likely time I will get home before 9 o'clock and not get called in to work a weekend. Of course that can all change at the drop of an RFP.

Or if Johnny Client decides, after months of painstaking committee fucking, rewriting, tweaking, reshooting and re-editing…

"I'm not sure our new Super Bowl spot feels fresh and Disruptive™ as it did when I first signed off on it. Can you guys show me something new? On Dec. 26? Thanks."

The end of the year has also got me thinking. A moment for introspection. That's when I thought I would follow up on the most popular post ever written for Round Seventeen -- Why I Sucked at Being a Creative Director.

People like reading about my many faults and shortcomings. And they don't make any attempt to hide their glee. It's like an inverted schadenfreude, which is usually savored in private. In fact when I published the original post, I had "friends" offering to pile on.

"I'll tell you another reason, Siegel."

Thanks, but no thanks. I can handle this assignment on my own. Though I'm convinced my next book  would far exceed the sales of my current offering, if I just compiled a series of essays and titled it: Why I Suck At…

Anyway, picking up where I left off.

7. I have a short fuse. There I said it. I won't take it back. And I won't go in search of any fuse-enhancement pills. Not only is my temper short, it's volatile. I do not suffer fools gladly. I can deal with  people who are sneaky, political, brilliant, drunk, or just perpetually drunk, but I have no stomach for people who are stupid. And sadly when you've sat in three hour long wardrobe meetings discussing the merits of a cardigan vs. a vested sweater, you know there's plenty of stupid to go around.

Mind you, there have been many successful creative directors with short fuses, but they had redeeming qualities that I don't, like hair or nice shoes.

8. There's no me in Team. I know many people belong to the Congregation of Collaboration, I'm not one of them. There was a time, a better time, in advertising when I knew the names of all the great writers and art directors. I won't call them "rock stars" because I hate that delusional metaphor, but they were the heavily awarded individuals who had made a name for themselves by standing out from the crowd. If you've seen the credit list on any work lately you know credit nowadays belongs to the crowd. Assistant Associate Coordinators never enjoyed such limelight. In 2015, I didn't touch one assignment that wasn't also manhandled by half the creative department.

9. Lost my wind sock. I can read a room and can generally tell how and what to present. The industry, on the other hand, is thoroughly confounding. I always assumed clients want work that will make a splash, move the masses and create a recognizable spike in sales. That tells me to plant a flag, establish a unique tone of voice and execute it loudly on TV, in print and outdoor. But the well-informed creative director of today knows otherwise. As the Swedes on Happyish were fond of saying, "It's not about campaigns anymore." It's about getting Likes. Going viral. And to quote myself from a previous post, creating a "vast array of frivolous fuckwadian digital knick knacks™."

10. Ad ADD. In addition to my aforementioned short fuse, I have the even more crippling affliction of a short attention span. It's why it took me close to three years to write the book none of you bought. It's why I can't see a screenplay through from beginning to end. And it's why if a spot has reached the point of a 15th, 16th or 17th rewrite, I'll simply cave in and say, "have the client write it and I'll just polish up the turd."

There you have it, my Top Ten reasons on why I sucked at being a creative director. Could I write ten more? Of course I could. But then this thinly-veiled humblebrag would lose its disingenuous sheen of modesty.

Besides, it's getting a little long in the tooth and I just rummaged through the pantry and found some chocolate flavored Pop-Tarts with my name on it.

This is not my car.

This is my life.

Two weeks ago, Ad Age published an article titled: 50 Best Places to Work in 2015. I'm happy to say, and not in the slightest pandering way, that I've collected paychecks from five of them: Deutsch, RPA, Sapient Nitro, Team One and M&C Saatchi.

Who says I don't know how to butter that bread?

All due respect to the editors at Ad Age, who received a complimentary copy of my new book but refused to give it any digital ink, I think you guys missed the boat.

You see, for my money, and I'm guessing for yours as well, I would have preferred an article about the 50 Worst Places to Work in 2015.

As a freelancer with a dozen years under my belt, plus another twenty as a staffer, I could easily rattle off a list of 50 dysfunctional, mismanaged, political hellholes. If I drank another cup of coffee I could run the number up to 75. But then I might never work again.

My daughters would have to drop out of college. And I'd be reduced to living out my remaining days on store-branded macaroni and cheese and generic vodka. No. I'm not going to bite the hand that feeds me Wild Caught Alaska King Salmon sold at Whole Foods for only $29.99/lbs.

I'm not.

But I am going to reprint some choice nuggets I found on glassdoor.com, my new favorite website. And I am going to whip out the magic cloak of anonymity and let you do your own guessing and detective work.

As many you might know, I have a pet peeve about working late or on the weekends and believe strongly in a proper work/life balance. Apparently I'm not alone in this regard. Here's a choice comment from the pages of Glassdoor:

"A lot of people actually sleep here because they don't have time to go home or because it's 5 AM when they are done and it would be too dangerous to drive."

Holy shit!
5AM!

At that hour of the morning I'm in bed, deep in REM sleep and dreaming of Eva Longoria and subliminal train rides through the Lincoln Tunnel.

Here's one of a similar nature, at a different agency.

"Politics get in the way of results. 100 hour work weeks are standard"

100 hours? There are only 168 hours in a week. And I need 43 of them just for blogging, swimming, watching Jeopardy, and fighting with my wife.

This reviewer pulled no punches.

"Management is a hodgepodge of incompetent egos. They try to look like some creative agency but never does any real work. It's all social media stuff and banners. The entire thing is a joke."

Ouch. Not only taking potshots at the agency but also landing a few blows on the fragile chin of digital advertising.

Finally, and perhaps to demonstrate our endless ability to bitch and moan about our chosen profession, there's this from a new employee who takes issue with his agency's unique parking procedures.

"Someone's already scratched my car and it's only been 30 days. This whole valet parking idea is good in theory, terrible in practice."

I could do this all day. And perhaps we will visit Glassdoor in the future for more curated anonymous reviews. But right now there are pressing issues at hand. It seems I have purchased the wrong type of plastic garbage bags and my wife wants to go a few rounds.

Wish me luck.

Last week it was announced that Kedric George, perhaps the last smart client in America, had decided to reach in the vault and rebroadcast several TV commercials from Miller's famed late 1990's High Life campaign.

If ever there was work I wish I had done, this campaign, including 50 commercials, would take the top spot.

This is advertising that doesn't feel like advertising.

It's small.
Purposefully and brilliantly small.
There are no more than 7-8 cuts in each spot. And each vignette is born from the seemingly meaningless banality of life: running out of mayonnaise, lawn maintenance and dirty bowling balls.

These spots couldn't be smaller or less significant if they wanted to.

And that's what makes the work so authentic.
And genius.
Because Jeff Kling, the copywriter, and I'm sure he had help from his art director (s), mined these tiny micromoments and found truthful gold.

Though Jeff and I are connected via social media, I've never met him or had the pleasure of working with or for him. But should this post ever get back to him, he should know that I hold him in the highest regard.

If you've been a regular reader of RoundSeventeen you know that I rarely engage in flattery and often dish up a steady diet of mockery and disdain for the lost art of copywriting. So today's post is truly bucking a trend.

Similarly, I've never worked with the Director Errol Morris, who also deserves recognition for the pitch perfect casting, sets, locations and camera angles. And for briefly reviving the always-stylish Johnny Unitas buzz cut.

To say I am in awe of this body of work is an understatement. I'd be lying if I told you I never tried to emulate or take a similar approach with other assignments. But creating a singular tone of voice or planting a flag and adopting a distinguishable POV is just not something today's crop of CMOs have any interest in.

They're more interested in going viral.
Or as yesterday's post pointed out, racking up the Likes.

If you've got an hour or so to to kill, do yourself a favor and watch all 50 commercials. And crack open a six pack of beer while you're doing so.

But not Miller.
Troy Aikman may know football, but he doesn't know crap about beer.


It's a favorite pastime of people 44 years and older to talk about the glory days of advertising.

The good old days. When briefs were brief. When check ins were scheduled by the week, not by the hour. And when account people sold the work and didn't messily inject themselves into the creating of the work.

Of course these kvetching sessions are always anecdotal. There's no actual hard evidence, archeological or otherwise, that this golden era of advertising ever existed.

Consequently...

"Ahhhhh, this business has changed," is as expected as the unhappy old man at a restaurant, "The soup is cold."

But last week, while foraging around on linkedin.com for my next gig, I came across the photo you see pictured above.

Maybe you don't have your reading glasses or your eyes are still bleary from working late last night and preparing the 289 page deck for the End of Year Sales Event, so allow me to restate the caption above the picture: Audience is Everything. Applause is the New Revenue!

That my friends is a game changer!

A clear indication that the Digital Revolution is over and the Tweeters, the Sharers and the Selfie-Takers have won.

You see in the old days, revenue was the new revenue.

We toiled, perhaps mistakenly, under the belief that as an advertising agency we were charged with increasing sales for our 15% commission-paying clients. We wrote long copy ads and crafted compelling TV commercials in order to make the cash register ring.

In return for that labor we traveled in business class, stayed at swanky hotels and made it a point to order the $38 room service breakfast.

"No, not the glass. Give me the whole pitcher of freshly-squeezed, pulp free orange juice. Thank you."

Those cash registers have been replaced by little plastic doohickies that can turn a smartphone into a money-accepting device, nevertheless I've been operating under the misguided belief that advertising  was always about increasing business for the people we were in business with.

Of course that kind of quaint thinking is so 20th century.

Now, it seems, clients are like that high school cheerleader who put on too much make-up and convinced her daddy to get her a boob job.

They just want to be liked.
Desperately liked.

It's not about moving merchandise off the shelf, it's about "shifting the emotional branding landscape."

Page hits are the new currency.

Units sold have been usurped by YouTube visits.

It's all so convoluted.

Just as bewildering as how a restaurant can charge $13 for a bowl of bad matzo ball soup.

I've been in advertising many, many years.

I know dozens of my contemporaries are looking for ways to get out. These are mostly staffers, working managerial positions and not having half the fun they used to.

I'm not looking for a way out, mostly because I like working the way I do.

As a mercenary. Sometimes actually going in to an office. Sometimes working from my house. But rarely meeting with planners, account people or clients. Or dealing with any of the mishigas that can instigate the fight or flight response.

In that respect, I'd like to work many, many more years in this crazy business.

Not to get a spot in the Super Bowl or create another award winning campaign, though that would be nice. Not to build my portfolio. I'm way past that. Not even to prove the remarkably obvious point that age and experience are more instrumental to an agency's success than free bagels, Friday afternoon keg parties or a creative department full of clueless hipsters in stingy brim fedora hats.

No.

I'd like to work in advertising so that one day, maybe, perhaps, with a little luck, on the off chance, with a sprinkle of serendipity, I might hear a client say:


"That's good, but it doesn't make me nervous. I want something that makes me feel nervous."


"I like the dog, but wouldn't it be better with a monkey?"


"I have a gut feeling about this, let's skip the focus groups."


"This feels like spoon-feeding. We shouldn't speak down to our customers."


"I like it, I don't care what my boss thinks."


"I know this should have a social media component, but let's save that money and put it into the production budget."


"Let's give it more white space."


"Now that the planner has left the room, can you tell me what he does?"


I could probably come up with 100 more of the quips, but the codeine based cough medicine I've been taking is making me sleepy.

Feel free to add your own.

As a copywriter, it's my job to make you want things.

Maybe even things you don't even need.

Take the Cast Iron Giraffe Paper Roll Stand (pictured above) for example. I didn't write the copy for this one-of-kind-gift, found on Bitsandpieces.com, but I have spent considerable time going through the catalogue, marveling at the assortment of tshotchcockery that singlehandedly fuels the Chinese economy.

Think about it, for only $19.99 you could own this paper roll stand and have a "fun way to store your toilet paper." And who isn't looking for that?

The catalogue goes on to say…

"Our handcrafted giraffe paper holder is a whimsical and attractive accessory for storing and presenting your toilet paper or paper towels. The giraffe's long neck will deliver paper wherever you need it. Holds two rolls of toilet paper or one roll of paper towels. Decorative, functional and fun. Distressed brown finish. #40099"

They could have left it alone, but they took the time to distress the brown finish. That's some fine Taiwanese craftsmanship.

Maybe you didn't receive the bitsandpieces.com catalogue in the mail and you're hoping that Rich shares more of the premium gift ideas weeks before the sacred celebration of our Savior's birth. Well you are in luck my friend.

Next up on the RoundSeventeen Shopping Network…

It's Bessie the Cow Tree Hugger.

I don't know why you need to spend $29.99 on a cow to hug your tree. And if there was any clever word play going on, I couldn't for the life of me figure it out. But I do know if you're going to the trouble of getting a 6 inch long miniature cow garden sculpture for your yard, you definitely want one made from sturdy weather resistant polyresin -- the finest polyresin West of the Yangtse.

Maybe that's too static for your taste.

Say hello to Racing Grandma and Grandad.

This, according to the catalogue is "the oldest race there is." Simply wind up the Granny and pull back the Grandad and let the race begin. Ready…steady…slow! It's hysterical fun for the whole family. Let's not forget the good folks at bitsandpieces.com have thoughtfully included an online video to capture all the scintillating fun.

It's 360 degree, fully-integrated brand engagement. If they're smart, Granny and Grandpa will have an Instagram page, Live Twitter feeds and oodles of ongoing Snapchattery.

Finally, assuming you haven't had enough fun, there's this…

It's a tie.

It's a piano.

It's Both!

I don't go to too many holiday parties. And I've never been to one where some bon vivant was entertaining the crowd with moving renditions of Billy Joel classics on his Piano/Tie, but I guess it's early in the season and there's still hope.

There's this unwritten law in advertising that you never speak publicly about bad clients. You don't name names. And you don't burn bridges.

By and large I have abided by that law. I don't know if you know this but I recently wrote an entire book about my travails in advertising and though I alluded to some names, never crossed the line.

Today, I'm going to throw caution to the Santa Ana Winds and willingly break that law.

Why?

Because I'm 44 years old. I'm almost done paying for my daughter's college education. And like my disdain for the Open Office plan, there are just some things that need to be said.

Recently, I was in San Francisco. On the way to the airport we passed by the former corporate headquarters of Siebel Systems. I'd be shocked if any of you heard of Siebel, much less knew what they did.

Theirs was the world of CRM, Customer Relationship Management, and at the time they were masters of their domain. Their namesake, Tom Siebel (reportedly with a net worth $5 billion), ran a tight, tight ship.

Men wore suits. Women wore dresses. And the elevators were pumped with the wholesome G-rated music of the Beach Boys, Frankie Vallie and the Johnnie Mann Singers.

In other words, the perfect client for Chiat/Day, the pirates of the ad world, to be pitching. But pitch we did, ignoring the results of the chemistry check and that we were the Mentos in their 2 liter bottle of Diet Coke.

I'll spare you all the gory details. The pitched internal battles between the Planning Department and the Creative Department. The painful hours spent behind one way mirrored glass in focus group facilities. And the lost nights holed up at the Radisson SFO, conveniently located within 300 yards of Runway 25 Right. (Note to you kids reading: unless you're a Pilot or a Flight attendant, you never, ever stay at the airport hotel. Never.)

I'll spare you the gory details mostly because it's a blur. But here's the part -- as close to verbatim as humanly possible-- I do remember.

"First of all, I want to thank you for all the hard work you've brought us today," said Tom Siebel, the man with his name on the building. "It's all so beautifully packaged. The margins are straight. The pages clearly numbered. And it's all so very professional. Very good."

Very good.
He thinks the work is very good.

"However, I'm not so sure about the messaging."

Uh-oh.

"The words? I like some of the words. Not all of them. Some of them are good."

That's a few points for the copywriter.

"Not so sure about the pictures however."

Here it comes.

"Here at Siebel, we're in the business of business. So our ads should have some good business images."

At this point our account team was furiously taking notes.

"What about a woman taking an order over the phone? That's a good image. Or a man leaning over another man's shoulder and checking some work on a computer screen? Have you looked at that? Or what about two businessmen shaking hands as if they just completed a deal? That's a good image. Can you bring us back something like?"

We could.

Thankfully, we didn't.

Fitting that tonight I will polish off the last of the turkey, thereby marking the official conclusion of our festive Thanksgiving celebration.

And what a celebration it was. For the first time in a long time we had both daughters --back from college-- sleeping under our roof.

The Empty Nest was no longer empty.

Now, if by chance you think I'm going to launch into another long-winded, sentimental, weepy piece about the joys of fatherhood and the longing for an earlier time when I would happily change their diapers often filled to the brim with some mysterious brownish, greenish, yellowish poop, think again.

I've courageously explored my softer side and exposed my emotional underbelly to readers of Round Seventeen in the past only to be resolutely rebuffed.

"Why don't you go back to writing something angry about advertising?"

"Who was the guest author today?"

"I think you were funnier when you were fat."

Moreover, there are professional consequences. Those type of mushy posts only serve to weaken the Rich Siegel Brand. You see, agencies call me when they need to hawk some cars or beer or sneakers or even some fried tortilla chips that can be "enjoyed and experienced in a communal setting conducive to the generation of sharable moments." They're looking for hard-hitting, straightforward thinking and writing that appeal to Joe Sixpack and Betty Bag O'Donuts.

What they're not looking for is some teary-eyed 44 year old father who can't keep it together because his girls abandoned him and hopped on a plane to Seattle. Or Denver.

In any case they're gone now. And the evidence of their departure couldn't be clearer.

The beds are made.
There's no toothpaste in the sink.
The snotty tissues from Abby's sinus infection are nowhere to be seen.
The Volvo has been tucked away at the back of the driveway.
The lights are not on, the heat is not escaping from open doorways and the house is no longer ringing from my rhetorical questions ("Do you guys think I'm made of money?")

And it's quiet.

Too.

Damn.

Quiet.

Thankfully, they'll be back in three weeks.

I normally don't blog on Holidays, knowing offices are closed, web traffic is down and the 14 people who regularly read this tripe are probably already soused and napping on the couch.

But today, Thanksgiving, when we celebrate the bounty, the harvest and the best damn food Mother Earth has to offer, I thought I'd leverage the irony to discuss the worst.

Every month or so, we get together with friends on a kitschy exploration of LA's not-so-Yelped about restaurants. We purposely go in search of run down joints that have seen better days. It's far too easy to plunk down a couple of C-Notes and dine at the city's numerous 5 star eateries, with their multipage wine lists and their artisanal selection of handpicked arugula salads.

It's much more challenging to seek out a long lost treasures of culinary delight. Last Saturday we discovered just how challenging that can be.

We found ourselves downtown, where, just a few urine-soaked blocks east of Bottega Louis, stands the famed 5-story Clifton's Cafeteria.

I'm only 44 years old so I was unfamiliar with this Southern California stalwart, but apparently Clifton's was a staple of good home cooked comfort food for millions of Angelenos. Sadly, it fell into disrepair, until some investors sank $5 million dollars to bring it back to its former glory.

They probably should have saved some money in the budget for silverware. You see, as a $9.63 an hour full time employee stood at the front of the restaurant to point out where we pick up our cafeteria trays (and that's all she did), we encountered the first of many signs of our poor dining decision.

The cutlery bin had an ample supply of metal forks. Incredibly thin, cheap metal forks stamped from sheets of cheap metal in a Taiwanese factory manned by hungry child laborers with no foot coverings. The knives did not come from the same place. They were plastic. And probably retrieved from the recycle garbage bins at a picnic at nearby McCarthur Park.

Spoons? There were no spoons.

Again, at this point we should have bailed and caught the first train back to Culver City, where at the very least we could have gotten some crappy fare at the highly overrated Titos Tacos.

But we pressed onward to the carving station, where three guys who looked like they had just been released from San Quentin, greeted hungry diners with all the hospitality of an angry porcupine. They hacked away at the Grade C Prime Rib and reluctantly dished up the macaroni and cheese which also doubles as spackling compound.

With our food (?) secured on our dirty cafeteria trays with half a set of necessary silverware, we went in search of an empty table. To our collective surprise we were able to find one. Ironically, this was the only component of our dining experience that went according to plan.

Somewhat.

I had hoped to flag down a waiter or waitress to secure some much needed alcohol in order to take the edge off this journey to Dante's Inferno, but I believe the waiter was in the alley shooting dice with the just paroled Maitre D'.

Apparently the busboys were also in on the action. Because they too were conspicuously absent. As evidenced by the abundance of dirty dishes as far as the eye could see. On the table next to us. On the table behind us. On the seats in front of us. There were dirty dishes stacked on the artificial stone sculpture expensively made to look like the interior walls of the Grand Canyon.


Which I am now naming Clifton's Faux Fountain of Post Digestive Gloom.

Note to Management: dirty dishes should be removed from the eating area and not left in plain sight where they only serve to remind diners that they are not alone in their poor choice of restaurants, there is no God and we're all going to die.

But today is all about gratitude..

Let us all rejoice in the fact that we are NOT eating at Cliftons. That there is enough bourbon in the cabinet to get through two Armeggedons. And that we are not fans of the Detroit Lions, who will no doubt fulfill the long tradition of losing on Thanksgiving Day.

Anger has gotten a bad name.

Given a choice, most employers would fire an angry employee before an incompetent employee (I know this from experience.) We suppress anger. We hide it from our kids. We walk away from anger when, at least when it comes to advertising, we should be embracing it.

Take for example Apple's 1984 commercial, largely the centerpiece of the new Steve Jobs movie.

Regarded as the best commercial ever committed to celluloid, the spot hinges on anger. When viewing the first rough cut, no one said, "Does she have to be so angry?" Without her frustration, boiled to perfection, there is no spot.

Another example, and one that never fails to make me laugh, is a classic Skittles spot.



This is so pitch perfect I don't know where to begin.

Neither, it appears, do any of today's marketing whizzes. Because the moment a client catches the slightest whiff of anger in a script, or a performance, or even in the enthusiastic defense of an idea, the review instinct kicks in and the call to a new agency consultant is made.

That's how averse we have become to anger.

As a result we are left with an endless stream of formulaic commercials in every variety of mind numbing cheeriness:

Bite & Smile
Drive & Smile
Wipe & Smile
Get a Free Credit Report & Smile
Furnish a Living Room & Smile
Get Unlimited Text & Data & Smile

and of course,

Conquer Erectile Dysfunction Sit in a Clawfoot Tub & Smile.

But the truth is, happiness is cheap. It's boring. And does nothing to spark my interest. Whereas anger is real. Authentic. And when left in its purest undistilled form, the most entertaining.

When I turn to Yelp or Glassdoor or any of the consumer generated review sites, the one star reviews are so much more compelling and informative than the 5 star reviews. I could spend an entire morning in bed, cozied up with a warm blanket and nonstop stream of well-crafted, steaming disgruntled employee invective.

If clients were smart they'd tap into this largely unused emotion and beat their competitors to the punch with spots that have a built-in organic truth. But my experience tells me clients, and many creative directors, are not smart and will always default to the pre-digested bite size nuggets of non-confrontational conformity.

And that has always, and will continue to, made me angry.


I was in San Francisco last week. Again. And as you can see from this snapshot from the 23rd floor of my hotel, Xenia, the Greek Goddess of Hospitality, was much kinder than the previous week when I was double-shafted and assigned to a room next to the elevator.

Correction, next to two elevators.

Hotels rooms have changed quite a bit in the last decade. Minibars with their $9 Bud Lights and $23 bag of cashews seem to have disappeared. Keurig single shot coffeemakers have become de rigueur. And now, because of all our devices, every room now features wall-to-wall electrical outlets. Some of the outlets have outlets.

One thing that hasn't changed is Spank-O-Vision. Hotels still have it, though I have to imagine this one-time ludicrous revenue stream is now running as dry as the creeks feeding the mighty Kern River.

Thank you Interwebs.

With all the free porn on the Internet, and I'm told by friends there is quite a bit, it's not just the hotels that are hurting. The porn manufacturers and distributers must be dry humping themselves in frustration.

Years ago, I had a long term temporary gig at DirecTV.

One of my coworkers told me it was impossible to access the 7th floor of the corporate headquarters in stodgy El Segundo. That, he explained, is where all the workers -- and there were hundreds -- were hunkered down in the cubicle farm doing their best to keep the pay per view porn pipeline flowing with the latest and greatest in MILFs, Barely Legal Latino Babes and a full complement of Fetishist fare.

"Now showing on Channel 594, Fits of Fisting. They're hot, they're angry, they're a handful!"

 I would have given anything to have gained access to that floor, just to witness how the banality of the corporate world found itself intersecting with the titillation of adult film making. Imagine how all the mundane office chitter chatter would sound as it passed through the Chatsworthian prism of porn.

"Hey Phil, we need you in the status meeting, we're going through the 3rd quarter marketing plans for the Lesbian Threesome Packages."

"Who left and didn't brew a new pot of coffee? I'll bet it was those slobs in the Bukake group."

"Bob, put down those P&L reports on Busty Nurses and fill out your time sheets. Otherwise I'm gonna hear all about it from Janet in Accounting."

Sadly, all that's going away. I have to imagine the 7th floor at DirecTV will soon be evacuated. And the porn people will be replaced by something else. I'm guessing it will be the burgeoning Fantasy Football phenomena.

It just won't be the same anymore. Because let's face it, a piece of paper left in the Xerox machine regarding the spread on the Chargers/Saints Game is far less interesting than one entitled Profit Margins on Spread Those Silky Thighs, Volume 12.


If you work in the world of car advertising it is once again The Most UnWonderful Time of the Year.

You know what I'm talking about: the end of year sales events.

To illustrate today's post, I've selected a picture that does not feature any recognizable logo. I'm 44 years old and have been doing car advertising for a long time and I'll be damned if I could tell you who makes the car pictured above. It doesn't matter. Not only do all the cars look alike these days. So does their advertising.

It's no ones but fault but our own.

We use the same directors. Who cast the same people. To shoot at the same tired collection of locations (I'm looking at you Modern, Upscale Architecturally Designed House with the sleek kitchen featuring white cabinets, white subway tile and black soapstone counters).

And, in this sea of sameness, we roll out the same chirpy dialogue and the same over-enthusiastic call to action.

I'm not indicting anyone. Or any particular agency. Hell, I'm a mercenary and have been complicit in many of these bedshitting sales events. Moreover, if the check clears, I'm happy to help you with next year's Non-Denominational, Gift Giving Clearance Extravaganza.

I'll sift through hours of running footage. I'll cast perky plasticine people. And I'll sort through cut after cut of energetic, holiday-ish music that inoffensively captures the spirit of Christmas, Hanukah and Kwanza while simultaneously driving hordes of people to their nearest ____________ dealer. Offer ends soon.

Of course, it doesn't have to be like that.

Five years ago, I was hired by my friend and one of the best creative directors in the business, John Hage, to put together a different kind of Year End Sales Event. It was one of the best freelance assignments I ever experienced.

We were given time to explore different directions. None of this, "Here's the three page brief, let's check in and see where you're at after lunch."

We hired a great director, Rick LeMoine.

We found actors who could improvise.

And we had a client who trusted our decisions and gave us enough leash to poke around Quirkyland and put people on screen doing and saying things that usually end up on the cutting room floor. Or on Director's cuts.

You know me, I don't like to self-promote or toot my own horn, but I went back and viewed a few of the dozen spots (art directed by the amazing Stan Toyama) and they still produce a laugh. So, in that immodest holiday spirit of sharing…





No one is suggesting that you buy a $40,000 car as a gift for your loved one. If you can afford it and need a new set of wheels that's great. But it is hardly the only the present that will bring a smile of delight.

Sometimes that can be accomplished with a basket of Incredible Edibles. Or, if your spouse isn't tickled by the notion of chocolate covered cantaloupe, what about a book?

Who doesn't love getting a book?


I'm absolutely positive that today's news will have no effect on your life.

None.

But it has a 100% chance of changing mine.

After living in the same Culver City house for 22 years, raising two kids, and going through a complete remodel, including the addition of a second story, we are finally getting air conditioning.

Not just one air conditioner mind you, but two. Because my house has two furnaces. And after doing a lot of research and listening the pitches from the overly enthusiastic A/C salesman, I discovered I need to attach a unit to each furnace.

Thus doubling my cost.
Why would I expect anything less?
If you need any reminders this chart showing my double elevator adjacent room at a business hotel speaks volumes.



But I'm not here to gripe.
Money be damned.

The Siegels are now entering the 21st century and ready to do battle with the global warming induced soaring temperatures.

Yes, that means we'll be impacting the planet with a larger carbon footprint.

But, it also means I'll be in a better mood so I won't have to drink as much alcohol.

We'll have to close the windows, so I won't have to listen to the neighbor's dogs.

And most importantly, I'll be schvitzing less. And less schvitzing means I'll be changing my underwear and T-shirts less often. So we'll be doing less loads of laundry. Making my increased BTU consumption and that whole carbon thing, a wash.

It's getting warm in here, think I'll turn it up to Eleven.


Don't know if you saw this, as news items go, this should not have even come up on the radar, but Twitter recently changed their Favorite button to a Heart button.

Like I said, hardly newsworthy, unless of course you're the editor of ADWEEK, the advertising industry's leading trade publication. Then, it's not only front page material  it demands some hard-nose, in-field journalism.

Adweek dispatched TWO hungry reporters to interview eight, count em, EIGHT Digital Gurus to weigh in on the paradigm-shifting, game-changing matter before the frustrated journalists at Ad Age could even get another blank cassette in the recorder.

I'm sure there was some Monday morning quarterbacking going on after that journalistic debacle.

"How did we let Adweek get the scoop on us?"

"First they beat us to the SuperDesk™ story and now this?"

"People, we need to roll up our sleeves and get in the trenches. How are we doing on that list of the Hottest 25 Chief Creative Officers Under 25 Years Old?"

But enough imaginary competitive squabbling, what, you are probably wondering, did these EIGHT Digital Gurus have to say on the ground-shaking re-arrangement of pixels found at the bottom of every 140 character tweet? Not surprisingly, there was a wealth of wisdom spewing from these experts oozing with professional expertise.

Said one prognosticator:

"This will add more meaningful and emotional actions for marketers to measure content performance and to base targeting and optimization of paid media on."

God, yes. He used the words 'content', 'base targeting' and 'optimization' in one sentence. Not sure what any of that means but last week when I favorited a tweet from Hellman's Mayonnaise, I had a meaningful emotional action and was almost in tears.

This expert was not alone.

"Twitter can be a lonely place for users when you tweet something and no one gives you a response or feedback -- this will help."

I certainly hope so. I once tweeted about Kim Jung Un, the North Korean Child King and no one Hearted it. I got very despondent and had to call my wife. Also, to ask her to pick my shirts at the dry cleaners.

The EIGHT interviews also produced this nugget of sagacity, which if you read carefully and spot the indecisiveness, is actually two nuggets of sagacity.

"Brands will likely get more 'likes' than they did 'favorites' because liking something is a much lower barrier than making it your 'favorite,' especially when it comes to retweeting. However, this move by Twitter could create less retweets, which generates more reach for a brand. On the plus side, it may help with standardizing reporting across Facebook and Twitter as it will be a 'like' for 'like.' "

If I've said that once I've said it a hundred times.

The crack trade reporters could have investigated the recent salary and bonus freeze at Publicis and correlated that to the $50 million spent on the bungled Omnicom/Publicis merger, but they went a different direction.

Nice job Adweek, nice job.

Last week, my brother and I went to Seattle in the first of what I believe will become many annual pilgrimages.

We went to visit my daughter at UDUB  (University of Washington) and to watch the Huskies, a football team largely financed by my tuition dollars.

As one might expect in early November, in the great Pacific Northwest, it was raining. It was raining the minute we stepped off the plane and it continued to rain until our plane reached 15,000 feet in altitude on our return flight two and a half days later.

Naturally, my brother had secured us seats for the game in the uncovered section of the stadium. In other venues, these seats are known as LOGE. In Seattle they're known as the Sucker Seats.


It was here, under a driving rain and a biting perpetual wind, that my brother turned to me, pulled the plastic poncho away from his cheek, and said…

"Too bad we didn't do any tailgating before the game."

It should be noted that he and I are cut from different cloth. He's an accountant. I did everything in my life not to become an accountant. He's single, has no kids and is unburdened. I'm married with a wife, two kids, two college tuition bills and two mortgages. He has a pension plan. I work in advertising.

I turned to this strange man and said, "Wait, what?"

In addition to the miserable weather that should have sent Lewis & Clark back towards warmer, drier climes, I pointed out what seemed to me to be very obvious reasons why we didn't Tailgate; we walked to the game from our on-campus hotel, we didn't have a car for the parking lot and, perhaps most importantly, we didn't know anybody at the game.

So what, he replied, adding that he does it all the time when he hops on a plane and follows the Notre Dame football team from city to city. By the way, he never attended Notre Dame. And has even gone solo on these football extravaganzas. He's just that into the Fighting Irish.

You just mosey up to people in the parking, flash your green jersey and commence tailgating with the locals? I asked.

"Absolutely," he replied. "They hand me beer, sausage sandwiches and a folding chaise chair to sit and 'chillax' for 6 hours before the game."

I squirmed in my pants, which were soaking wet from the metal bench, pulled the hefty bag over my face and turned to this man who allegedly shares the same DNA as me but not the same streak of misanthropy, and said that sounds like Holy Hell.


This has been a particularly bloody year in the land of Bordeaux, Voltaire and Brigit Bardot.

It was only last January that several Islamic Terrorists…oh wait, I'm not supposed to assign them any label for fear of offending 1.6 billion of their co-religionists…let's just call them Zealous Cartoon Haters, ambushed the offices of Charlie Hebdo.

They killed a dozen people there.
Over cartoons!

And because they still had ammo in their automatic rifles, stopped by a kosher market to kill 4 Jews. Again, nothing to do with religion. Because as history has taught us, killing Jews doesn't require much in the way of justification anyway.

But this is my larger point. History hasn't taught us.

Anything.

At all.

Because before this current wave of Allah-Akbar shouting murderous insanity, before the Twitter-inspired Arab Spring, and before American soldiers ever set foot in Iraq, the Israelis have seen it, lived it and buried their innocent children the same way the French will be doing this week.

Maybe you don't remember, but I do.

The PLO. Black September. Fatah. PFLP. Abu-Nidal. All, predecessors of Al Qaeda and ISIS.

I remember El Al jets being hijacked. I remember bombings at weddings, pizza parlors and kindergartens in Tel Aviv and Haifa. I remember 11 Israeli athletes being butchered on the tarmac during the 1972 Munich Olympics. Weightlifters, Wrestlers and Gymnasts, murdered in cold blood, while the world celebrated the spirit of brotherhood and our common humanity.

The Israelis are the kvetching canary in the coal mine. They tried to warn us then. Just as they are trying to warn us now.

"This is not going away. This cannot be ignored. This is your problem as well as ours."

I have no idea what the answers might be. Nor it seems to do our leaders-- French, Russian, American or otherwise. But I do know the problem cannot be addressed if the problem is not even properly identified.

It is about ISLAMIC Terrorism -- Koran-dictated, holy violent war waged against kuffar apostates and infidels for the establishment of a global Caliphate, under Sharia law, for the grace and glory of Allah, PBUH.

If we cannot get that through our thick, pollyanna, granola-crunching politically correct skulls, then the carnage that has bloodied the des rues of Paris will soon stain the boulevards and avenues of New York, Chicago and Los Angeles.

Dear America, Welcome to France.


I just flew in from Seattle and San Francisco and boy are my arms tired.

From writing letters, that is.

Letters to the Chief Customer Service Officers.

After a longer than expected flight -- aren't they always?-- I checked into the Holiday Inn in SF. Not my first choice in hotels, but the client was paying for it, so I had no say in the matter. I was assigned room number 2606, on the top floor of the building. Normally that would be a good sign because I don't like having guests in the room above me, as I am abnormally noise averse.

Even as I write this in the relative early morning silence of my home I am wearing my trusty Bose Quiet Comfort 15c's, the state of the art in noise canceling technology.

Also, through years of traveling experience and because I married a smart woman, I know not to accept any hotel room number that ends in 1 or 0, as those are the shitty rooms wedged between the wonky ice making machines and the elevators. Well, the folks at Holiday Inn didn't get the room numbering memo and as you can see from the chart affixed to the back of the door -- yes I took a picture of it -- my room, 2606, was located next to the elevator shaft.

The astute among you will also notice that it is adjacent to TWO elevator shafts!

If ever an infographic summed up my life, this one would win the prize.

Moreover, when I went downstairs to the front desk, the clerk mentioned that many top floor residents are bothered by the industrial HVAC equipment located, you guessed it, on the roof. Directly above the ceiling which is apparently made of the same rice paper thin material used to separate the rooms in the hotel. (Dear Guest in room 2604, I hope your nagging productive cough clears up very soon.)

At 1:39 AM I  found myself schlepping all my stuff to a new room on the 7th floor, a room as my luck would have it and I deduced from the residue fumes, had just recently been painted.

End of travel nightmare story, right?

Wrong.

On the last leg of my trip, I boarded an American Airlines flight, also delayed, and took my aisle seat. It was one of those new 737's with the electrical outlet and a decent amount of leg and hip space. But all those creature comforts vanished in a nanosecond as I noticed a large-ish couple making their way to the back of the plane.

As if there were any doubt, they were assigned to the middle and window seat right next to me. Look, I'm a fat, fattish, guy and don't like to participate in fat shaming. But I'm going with executive privilege much the way African American people are permitted to use the n-word or Jews are allowed to make jokes about Treblinka.

This guy was huge.

I'm no Midway carnival weight-guesser, but I'd say he was well north of 400 lbs. And as Siegel fortune would have it, he opted not for the window but for the middle seat. Next to me. As I was texting my wife about this invasion of my personal space, she requested a picture. So I nonchalantly put the phone in my lap and surreptitiously grabbed a snapshot.


I'm not sure the picture does it justice.

There was so much of this man, he could not bring his arms down onto the armrest. How awful it must be to go through life in such an uncomfortable body, I thought. Just as I was starting to feel sorry for the man, the flight attendant with the snack cart came by. He had the turkey sandwich platter. And for good measure had another one.

I went to the bathroom and when I got back I noticed my cheap styrofoam pillow was gone. I'm pretty sure he ate that for dessert.

When we got to the gate, I took advantage of my aisle seat location and bolted for the exit door. As fast as one can possibly bolt from a fully-loaded 737 plane that is. Considering how difficult it was for the man to wedge himself into the seat, I couldn't imagine how hard it would be for him to get out.

They either used the Jaws of Life or lubed him up with those little pats of butter, for which the airline now charges an additional one dollar fee.

Last week, Activision, makers of Guitar Hero and Call of Duty, purchased King Digital Entertainment, makers of Candy Crush, for 5.9 billion dollars.

I'm thinking this confectionary-themed arcade game is not only addictive but causes serious cavities. In the skull.

Full disclosure: I am not a gamer. Never have been. Never will be. Don't have the slightest interest in even knowing what Candy Crush is all about. I'm assuming it's about crushing candy, but that's all the valuable real estate in my brain that I'm willing to give up.

Moreover, I don't know a single soul that plays Candy Crush.

Or would be willing to admit they do.

Maybe that's a function of my particular West Los Angeles demographic: College-educated Affluent Influencers, 24-44, with many annoying affectations, unfounded beliefs in homeopathic alternative medicines and a wholly unscientific obsession with the retrograde position of Mercury in the celestial skies.

And while they're far too sophisticated for childish video games, I must deduce that millions upon millions of people in the hinterland are not. In fact, for 5.9 billion dollars, I have to assume there are entire states, like Iowa, Missouri and North Dakota, whose entire population are doing nothing but playing Candy Crush, morning, noon and night.

"Nurse, hand me the Watkin's forceps and clamp the anterior vein."

"Not now doctor. If I crush the lemon sucker I can reach Level 38."

Clearly, the folks at Activision possess a great deal more business acumen than I do. And considering how they boned me in 2007 , it would be all too natural to bear a grudge against these folks.

But I don't.
I'm simply calling into question the wisdom of spending 5.9 billion dollars on a well choreographed arrangement of pixels.

I'm sure they've done their homework and know that the Candy Crush crush will soon fade away. Consequently they're counting on the genii at King Digital to craft the next masturbatory big phenomena.

That's where I come in.
And maybe you.

I don't want to sound immodest, but I've had a fair amount of success in many genres. I've created ad campaigns, written movies, TV shows, a magazine parody, a blog, a couple of niche Tumblrs, and authored two books. I don't know if I've mentioned it but one of the books, Round Seventeen &1/2: the Names Have Been Changed to Protect the Inefficient  is currently in stock and available on Amazon for just $12.95.

How hard, I have to ask myself, can it be for a well-versed 44 year old freelance copywriter to come up with a video game? Not hard. And not so expensive either.

For an initial sign on fee of $10 million dollars I will put into place the apparatus needed to get the ball rolling.

I'll take a modest salary of $25 million.

I'll build out some space in Playa Vista with offices (no SuperDesks), hardware, software and colored Post It Notes, the obligatory pool and ping pong table, and even some Keurig machines, for another $25 mill. Ballpark.

I'll leverage my relationships with other outstanding creative people -- writers, art directors, storyboard artists, UX designers -- and put them on the payroll. A lot of these people work in ad agencies and would sell their grandmothers to get out. 100 creatives? Pfffft, I can get them for $479, 381. Roughly.

We'll throw in another $50 million for setbacks, revisions and do-overs.

Total cost to Activision -- $100 million and change. I'm no whiz at math and neither are the folks at Activision, but that's the whole shebang, kit and caboodle, soup to nuts, for about 1.6% of the original $5.9 billion.

Hold the phone, there it is, an idea for the next big video game -- Soup To Nuts.

Pencils down.


In the past week and a half I have discovered three colleagues who decided to hand in their staffer key cards, with all its incumbent amenities: 24 hour access to the office, free weekend parking and enough complimentary NutraSweet packets, colored post it notes and mechanical pencils to last a lifetime.

Not surprisingly, they've jumped right into the Freelance Pool.

My friend Mike Folino, who bills himself as the World's Best Freelancer (er….cough) often complains that my nonstop railing against the holding companies and my deadly accurate portrayal of sad agency life is only fueling the creative department departures.

"Siegel, what are you doing? You sit there in your pajamas, drink your coffee, put on your noise canceling headphones in your comfortable den and drone on about Open Office Plans and shitty status meetings, all while pulling down a healthy day rate. And sometimes two. You're a Retention Manager's nightmare."

In deference to Mike, and other well established freelancers who now find themselves swarmed by competition and fighting harder and harder for gigs, I've decided to spill some ugly truths about the freelance life.

Dry Spells -- Contrary to what some might believe, there are times when my phone doesn't ring and the only email I get is from pharmaceutical companies pitching me their expensive, hard-to-swallow (and useless) penis enhancement pills.

When one gig ends I don't seamlessly roll right into the next. I'll often find myself in a non-revenue earning gap of a day or two. Or even three. And with my new book  about advertising completed and soaring up the Amazon sales charts...




... it's difficult to know what to do with myself. There's only so much napping and daytime bourbon-drinking an underachieving writer can do.

Smiling and Dialing -- Something else they don't tell you when you leave the safety net of the agency, you have to hustle. You are in pitch mode every day. You may be a 44 year old copywriter with more than 30 years experience, but that wealth of experience means little, if anything, to the folks in charge of handing out the gigs. Moreover, they're getting younger and younger and may not even be familiar with your dated credentials.

"What's a double page spread? Are you sure you have the right number?"

Making Nice -- In my early days, I was quite the hothead. My anger would get the best of me. I would snap. Bark. And bite. I did not suffer fools well. I still don't. But now, as a freelancer, a temporary employee whose livelihood depends on being collegial, when a client says or requests something stupid, I feel compelled to bite my tongue and reply with words that do not come naturally to me: "Awesome", "Super" and "Wish I had thought of that."

Trust me, that can be the hardest part about being a freelancer.

That's just the tip of the iceberg.

Think long and hard on this my art director or copywriter friend. You may not be cut out for a life with a lot less stress, a lot more money and unpredictable flexibility in your schedule. In which case, I suggest you keep your day job.


I wrote hundreds of Apple ads and never listened to a word Steve Jobs had to say.

Of course an opening line like that begs for some explanation. So here goes.

In 1993 I was lured away from Chiat/Day/Los Angeles to work at BBDO on Wilshire Blvd. Though I had a head for math, science and calculus, I had no experience with computers at all. That didn't seem to bother the powers that be.

They hired me to write copy and that's what I did. Often until 1 or 2 in the morning, pending many layers of corporate approval. You see, Jobs was no longer with the company. It was being run by former PepsiCo executives. These brown fizzy water professionals believed they could turn the Mac into America's favorite business machine.

I don't like staying late at the office.

I like it even less to deal with brown fizzy water cretins who can't make up their mind.

Or who do make up their mind only to have it overturned by a brown fizzy water poobah on a higher level of the corporate hierarchy.

I was miserable. Left that job and ended up back home at Chiat/Day. Almost about the same time Steve Jobs ended up back home at Apple.

(My wife and I just went to see the Aaron Sorkin bio-pic this weekend so the timing is fresh in my head.)

In 1998, the resurgence of Apple was well underway. I had some minor successes at Chiat at about the same time. It was then that Lee Clow approached me.

"Rich, one of the senior writers on Apple is going back to NY. We need a guy who can channel Steve's voice and write copy that demystifies sophisticated computer advancements. I want to throw your oversized hat in the ring."

Lee gave me a weekend to mull over the proposition.

If I could take back that Monday Morning before the turn of the century I would.

Here I was being given an opportunity to work with one of the most influential men in the history of mankind. A chance to see and be part of the iPod, the iPhone and the complete democratization of technology. A ground floor, once in a lifetime bite at the Apple that could have changed the course of my career and made me and future generations carrying my DNA, fabulously wealthy.

I said "No" when I probably should have said "Yes". Swayed perhaps by one last comment from Lee.

"I know you like to write funny. But Steve doesn't do funny."

DOH!

They say if you've got your health you've got everything.

As of late, it hasn't felt that way.

There was my seaweed-soaked "vacation" in Mexico.
The setbacks and mishaps of publishing a book.
The noisy neighborhood canine adventures.
The departure of both my college girls.
And a string of freelance gigs that failed to materialize at the last second.

First world problems if ever there were any, but stressful nevertheless.

Happily, the tide seems to have turned.

We have adjusted to our new lives as empty nesters.
I didn't embarrass myself with the book, though it appears publishing is not the most direct route to financial gain.
And work, in the form of many assignments, is coming in from all directions.

Of course there can be no better indication that Lady Luck has come to pay a visit to Culver City than the events of last week.

You see because we are busy, and lazy, we, like many Southern Californians, have a cleaning lady. She comes twice a month to clean and do the stuff we don't want to. I want to say she is Mexican but I think she might be from Guatamala.

Either way, contrary to what Donald Trump might think, we don't need less of these people in our country, we need more.

She is soft spoken, friendly, law abiding and works harder than any human being alive. Certainly harder working than any of the orange or blue-vested cretins you'll find roaming the aisles at Home Depot or Best Buy.

Last week our cleaning lady called to tell us she would not be able to make her appointment as she needed to take care of her mother, a woman who must be in her 80's. Instead, she asked if her daughter, a part time student putting herself through college, could fill in and earn a little extra money.

Not a problem, we said.

Her daughter, a fluent English speaking woman in her late twenties showed up and didn't leave the house for 6 & 1/2 hours. She scrubbed. She scoured. She cleaned. She found areas of the house I didn't even know we had.

When I emerged from my office after writing some banner ads, I discovered she had ripped the entire refrigerator apart. She tore through that 26 cubic foot appliance like a White Tornado, more accurately, a Brown Tornado. At one point she asked me for a Phillips Head screwdriver so she could remove the Kenmore label and clean behind it.

As she was walking out the door, she asked if it would be alright to sub for her mom in another two weeks. The selfish part of me wants her to keep coming back. Forever. She'll have this house cleaner than Cedar Sinai Hospital. Of course, I know my luck and when it's good it never lasts too long.

Oh shit, I found a flea on the dog.

Correction, fleas.

I know some of you come here for a semi-daily dose of what passes for humor.

And others have stumbled upon this site because I once made the mistake of writing a blog about Filthy Cock Soap  (a real thing found in Maui) and now thousands of pervs are sent here due to some algorithmic detour.

But today, I'm tackling a different subject.

You see lately millions of people from Timbuktu to Toledo, Ohio are ready to blame Israelis/Jews -- I use the term interchangeably because Islamic terrorists and many so-called Moderate Muslims don't bother to make the distinction -- for once again beating down, persecuting and murdering poor Palestinians.

This in itself is not news as people, non-Jews, have been blaming my people, Jews, for anything and everything that makes their lives difficult for the past 5,000 years.

Financial Collapse? That was Glen Steinberg's fault.

Complete Moral Decay? That was Peter Feldman's fault.

Earthquake, Tsunami or typhoon? You should take a good look at Stu Goldman.

Now it seems, crafty Jews are mastering a new plot.

Everyday citizens of Haifa, Tel Aviv and Jerusalem are purposely running into the pointy end of kitchen knives held by innocent, peace-loving Palestinians, who perhaps were trimming the fat from their goat meat or widdling wooden duck decoys while riding the bus.

And why are these deceitful Israelis intentionally impaling themselves on unsheathed knives and turning the streets into a bloody mess? So they can justify the inordinate use of force by the Police or IDF and subdue these unimpeachable Palestinians who just happen to be wielding 18 inch razor sharp scimitars.

That's some clever shit. But what do you expect from the same people that gave the world Moses, Jesus, Einstein and Shecky Greene?

At the crux of this matter is the ongoing dispute regarding Al-Aqsa Mosque, the 5th or 6th holiest site in all of Islam. I can't be sure of the ranking, I have to double check the most updated list of Islamic Holy Sites. Suffice to say, it's up there.

The faithful believe that religious Jews are encroaching on the area and want to pray there. Of course, the Israeli government has not allowed, that nor intends to allow, that for fear that it may upset the local mullahs. They don't want the mosque to be "sullied or tainted by the presence of dirty Jews" -- those are Palestinian words not mine.

Shocking isn't it? Particularly in light of legendary Muslim hospitality.

In 2012, Sheik Abdul Aziz bin Abdullah , the Grand Mufti in Saudi Arabia claimed it is "necessary to destroy all churches in the region because Mohammed (the Merciful One) declared there are not to be two religions on the Arabian Peninsula."

Much less three.

Tell me again about Apartheid states in the Middle East.

Soon the UN will condemn Israel for the disproportionate use of force.

Billions of dollars in aid will be sent to the Palestinians.

And the world will once again be duped by the same Neanderthal cultural narrative that gives us honor killing, tosses gay people from rooftops and criminalizes woman for daring to be raped.

Last week, I returned to the Baldwin Hills overlook. It had been a while since I made it up The Hill and now that we are falling into Daylight Savings Time it appears my late afternoon 7 mile hikes will become even more infrequent.

I always go well prepared. A camelback full of water. An iPhone full of juice. And a tiny iPod full of randomly selected songs.

Occasionally, one of the songs is not a song at all. But an old radio spot that managed to find its way into my iTunes library.

One of those spots, for Earthlink popped up out of the blue. I wrote it at a time when China was still following the path of Mao Tse Tung and Russia had just awakened from its drunken experiment with Bolshevism.





I decided to bring this to your attention because there has been a lot of press lately about good clients/bad clients, good agencies/bad agencies.

When I wrote this spot, I had the good fortune of working with one of the best clients -- Claudia Caplan, who is also a good friend. Prior to the Earthlink assignment, I knew of Claudia because she had made a name for herself as one of the top copywriters in Southern California. She had won all kinds of awards and her work was featured in many of the ad annuals.

This gave me a chance to see -- and steal -- her writing style. Always sharp, always intelligent, always well-crafted.

Long story short, we hit it off right away. I'm here to tell you there is nothing better than to have a former copywriter or art director, someone who "gets it" and knows what it takes to come up with ideas, as your client.

We had a good run on Earthlink.

We did smart, funny work. Messed around with animators for some very interesting TV. Increased their subscriptions. And even won a few awards. Then, as it always does, the brass at Earthlink brought in some MBA hack from Coca Cola who quickly demanded we 'lobotomize' the campaign.

I think we all know how that story ends.

Nobody does radio anymore.

I'm still plugging away as a 44 year old freelance copywriter.

And Claudia has some big wig job in NYC. She has tried to explain to me what she does, but when I hear words like disintermediate and shifting platform development, the hair in my ears tends to bunch up and I drift off to fantasies about Derek Jeter's fiancé.

I'm not saying I wish Claudia would get fired from her job and become the next CMO at a large brewery or automaker and hire my partner and me to create the next campaign, but I'm not not saying that either.


It isn't often that I get to come on to Round Seventeen and blather on about advertising genius; lately those two words have become an oxymoron.

More surprisingly, I, nor any of my immediate colleagues, had anything to do with the brilliance of which I am about to speak.

Last week, REI announced they would not be opening their doors for Black Friday, the consummate day of shopping after Thanksgiving that often involves random bloody violence, gluttonous consumerism, and long lines of eager buyers camped out in a parking lot with the hope of scoring a 40% discount on a cheap Chinese-made toaster oven.

In other words, the trifecta of Modern American Culture.

But REI -- the leading purveyor of outdoor activity equipment -- will have none of that. While others are zigging, they are zagging. Or in the parlance of mountaineers, they are abseiling while others are jumaring.

Some retailers are following suit and shuttering their doors, but REI, more likely someone at REI's advertising/PR agency told them to make a big stink out of the deal. Because -- and this is the genius part -- it played right into the brand's creedo to get people outside more often.

By forfeiting whatever revenue would normally come in on that day, they would more than make up for it in the 364 other days of the year when their name had been firmly cemented as the go-to place for legitimate sporting equipment.

Not to mention all the free publicity the story generated.

Full disclosure: I am an REI Club Member and pre-disposed to like this brand. Before my yearly camping trips, my wife and I can be found scouring the aisles of the local outlet. She, for new camping outfits. Me, for some clever new device that will eliminate the need to get out of the tent when nature and my small bladder calls.

Years ago, my partner and I were asked to lead the pitch for Hardee's, or as we referred to them, the shoe-less, biscuit-baking Appalachian cousin to Carl's  Jr.

For research purposes, we flew to Alabama or Mississippi or one of the Jew-hating states to sample the goods. It wasn't good.

The food sucked.
But the place where the food was sold sucked even more.

We had this crazy idea: we would walk into the pitch for the $40 million account and tell Hardee's to cut their advertising budget in half. Then, as responsible brand stewards, we would suggest they funnel the $20 million into operations: cleaning up the stores, fixing the broken equipment, and firing the employees who had the enthusiasm of a three-toed sloth.

How refreshing it would be for a client to hear an ad agency forego half the billings for the better long term interests of the company?

Maybe it was because negotiations were still under way with the Holding Company or maybe it was because it was 4 PM on a kegger Friday afternoon when we brought the idea up with our agency "management" but that idea went nowhere fast.

"Are you kidding? That's about 2 million in revenue. I spent that much money on Rosé   wine at Cannes last year. Why don't you try to do something funny with their star?"

We didn't win the business.
And for bringing up similar boat-rocking ideas and for being contrarian in general, my partner and I were shown the door.

None of which helped the Hardee's brand.
But in retrospect, Getting Quit was the best thing that ever happened to mine.


Later to be known as Breakfast and Dinner.

If you've never read about the adventures of Mr. Shackleton, you owe it to yourselves to do so. I won't give away the details of his riveting story, but this was the famous newspaper ad he took out before leaving the warm shores of Argentina for the icy terrain of Antarctica.


In 2015 we no longer place Help Wanted ads in newspapers. We turn to Social Media.

In that spirit I am turning to you, RoundSeventeen readers.

Deluded by the saccharine sweet reviews of friends and family, I am hoping to advance my literary adventures with the assistance of an official Literary Agent. (BTW, this is serious and I welcome any assistance.)

Normally, I might take the time to exercise my recently-acquired photoshopping skills and mimic the style of Shackleton's infamous ad.

But it's the end of the week and frankly I'm tired of giving this stuff away for free.


When my kids were younger this was always an opportunity to explore some dark humor via the pumpkin decorations. For many years, we had vomitting pumpkins adorn our porch. Followed by drowning pumpkins  and enema pumpkins (don't ask).

This year both girls are at college and I'm swamped with work.

Plus, if I don't continue to harass readers and Facebook followers with ads for my new book, who will?

So the pumpkins will be quite simple this year. We're also changing up our confectionary distribution.

Last year, my wife visited Costco and brought home the small central American sized bags of Milky Ways, Snickers and Almond Joys. Unfortunately, perhaps due to global warming or the political upheaval in the Middle East, little children did not come by the house to relieve us of all these tempting chocolate treats.

We had leftovers. Last Thursday, I found the last of the Snickers bars in the freezer, tucked behind some ground buffalo meat that had long since passed its expiration date.

This year it's going to be different. We'll hand out candy, but I have pleaded with my wife NOT to buy the good candy. This way, if there are any left over, we can toss it right in the trash or leave it on the doorstep of one those illegally zoned preschools that have been cruelly plunked right in the middle of a residential neighborhood.

Here is the acceptable list of Halloween candy for 2015:

Lollipops -- Never liked them. Never will. Always associated lollipops with Tetanus shots or root canal. If they're good enough for doctors and dentists to dispense, they're good enough for the Siegels.

 Necco Wafers -- Frankly, I never understood why these multi-colored discs qualify as candy. Or even food. Who walks into a candy store and says, "Oooo, I can't wait to get me some Necco Wafers?" They're like tiny dishes for gerbils. Or something you'd find in a hardware store.

 Candy Corn -- Found at the bottom of the pillowcase after a long night of candy collection, these loose nuggets of colored sugar were often covered with lint or dirt and never made it past my mother's post Halloween candy inspection.

Old Lady Sucking Candy -- Needs no explanation.

 Kit Kat, Twix or Heath Bars -- Technically, these are chocolate and might seem tempting if found in the pantry after November 1st. But I never developed a palette for these hybrid candy/breakfast bars. The sound and the texture is all wrong. And so are the people who enjoy these wannabe's. Show me a kid who chooses a Heath Bar over a Snickers and I'll show you a candidate for the DeVry Institute.

This is what we're handing out this year.

I hope we get a great turnout and run out of candy by 9PM. I know some scraggly ass teenagers, who haven't bothered to put on a costume, will swing by. That's when I like to stop with the treats and start with the tricks.

I can only imagine their faces when they get home, and amongst their sugary booty, they find a random sorting of metal washers, molly bolts and 3/4 inch lug nuts.


Last weekend, my wife and I went to Palm Springs to visit my uncle who was recovering from knee replacement surgery but who is now also recovering from broken wrist surgery. This, as a result of him not listening to his doctors and falling down while attempting to walk without his cane or walker.

We Siegels are a stubborn and often stupid bunch.

After many years of traveling to my uncle's beautiful mid-century home in the historic El Mirador section, it was the first time I noticed that his street, Chia, lacked only one letter from my long time alma mater, Chiat.

My day in Palm Springs bore some other similarities to a typical day at Chiat; there was discomfort, frustration, and laughter, topped by just a smattering more of discomfort and frustration.

As my uncle was immobile, I found myself running around town picking up odds and ends for his long rehabilitation. At this point it should be noted that what Frank Gehry is to architecture, Palm Springs is not. It is a vast desert carved up into thousands of mile long, low slung strip malls.

When Siri has announced that you have arrived at your destination, you have not. Try finding the hardware store at 1450 S. Ramon Drive among the 150 other businesses located at 1450 S. Ramon Drive.

It should also be noted that Palm Springs is almost exclusively populated by old people. And gay people. Or like my uncle, older people who also happen to be gay.

Everywhere I looked there were couples of two men, often wearing a T-shirt, cargo shorts and flip flops. In other words, they looked exactly like me.

Only they were much older than my 44 years.

There I was, a barrel-chested, hirsute single man, sporting muscular calves and thick Tom Selleck-like mustache walking the sun baked streets of Palms Springs alone. Suddenly, I was their Ursine Eye Candy. And couldn't help noticing the lascivious glances thrown my way. I could almost hear them whispering as I walked by.

"I'd like to take that bald Teddy Bear home and…"

After a long day of traversing the strip malls and deflecting the imaginary unwanted attention of Chardonnay-savvy men, I decided to bring some Thai food back to the house. We ordered dinner from one of the local 4 star restaurants along Palm Canyon Drive.

Parking took 20 minutes. Finding the restaurant took 20 minutes. Straightening out my order once inside the restaurant took 20 minutes. Checking the food before leaving the restaurant and discovering it was the wrong order took 20 minutes. Canceling the order and driving to another Thai Restaurant took 20 minutes.

As I noted on my scathing one star Yelp review, I could have retrieved the Thai food faster had I boarded a plane to Bangkok.

I guess it's only fitting that my long Chia Day turned into a longer Chia Night.

You probably heard, but last month I finally published my new book .

This month, I've been doing all I can (and probably too much, at least according to my old boss Bob Kuperman) to promote the book. Yes, there are millions of dollars to be made in book publishing but only by those who are willing to go out there and get it.

OK, maybe that's not a true statement.

But I am flying solo on this -- that is, I don't have the marketing firepower of a Random House or Penguin Books behind my sails -- so I've taken to social media. You know me, I've always been an evangelist for social media advertising since the first catheter banner ad graced my AOL landing page.

As I've said countless times on this blog, "TV, Print and Outdoor is dead. If you want to sell a car, or a beer or even build a billion dollar brand, you've got get hold of some minimum wage college graduates who can whip up some Vines, Live Tweets and Brand Engagement Units. Pronto."

It seems I've gone off on a sarcastic tangent.

The point is, lately I've been on FaceBook, Twitter and Linkedin, with a bevy of fresh homemade ads for my book using nothing but celebrity snapshots, hand held photos of myself holding the book in a mirror, and the most rudimentary, shaky photoshopping skills -- the kind you might expect from someone with Lou Gehrig's Disease.  In a rowboat. Navigating 20 foot swells. In a typhoon on the South Pacific.

That and a fair dose of snarky wit.

A friend and colleague suggested the ads are more fun than the book. A compliment, yes. But the ads take me 10 minutes to turn around. The book took me more than three years.

In any case, I did what any fully-integrated, digital-savvy copywriter with too much free time on his hands would do -- I turned it into a Tumblr .

There you have it…

This particular blog piece,
is a promo,
for the website,
that is an aggregation of the advertising,
done for a book,
that details the painful making of advertising.

It doesn't get any more meta than that.


I have a confession to make. And it will come as no surprise to anyone who has been reading this blog, whether it be for a week, a month or even the last 7 years.

I'm a dyed in the wool cynic.

Perhaps it's due to my grossly oversized nose -- an aquiline projection from my face that makes it difficult to pass through narrow doorways and entrances -- but I can spot Bullshit from 5 miles away.

Which is why I raised an eyebrow about the University of Colorado's Parent's Weekend.

I didn't want to go.
My wife didn't want to go either. She's had a lot on her plate.

And frankly, with two out of state tuitions, room and board, laptop maintenance, and unlimited data plans for the incumbent iPhones, I didn't want to part with the money -- money reserved to keep me out of a dirty nursing home sometime down the road.

My daughter, on the other hand, desperately wanted us to drop everything, board a cattle car to Boulder and take her out for real (meaning not dormitory) food. And using a deft combination of writing and well-honed passive aggressiveness, let us know in no uncertain terms how much she want to see us.

Witness this phone text sent prior to big weekend:



That's my daughter.
Everything she knows about persuasion, I taught her.

Well, we did end up going. And just as I had suspected, spent two and half days shopping for college student resupplies, including a brand new iPhone and a duvet cover.

Her roommate got a new bike.

And the two girls across the hallway, got new winter boots and winter coats.

If I didn't know better, and unfortunately I do, I'd suggest this whole Parent's Weekend thing is just a cleverly disguised marketing stunt to pump fresh revenue into the coffers of Colorado retailers. In fact, I was chatting it up with the store manager at Patagonia who told me this is one of his busiest weekends of the year.

Of course, it wasn't a total loss, as we managed to get a little west of the town and take a nice stroll up towards the Flatirons. And I was able to get a snapshot of Abby and I, which brings me to a grand lifetime total of 27 photos.


I had intended to go on a lengthy rant about job-teasing Creative Resources Managers, their unwillingness to return phone calls or emails, and their shady day rate negotiation policies. But, other bloggers have covered that territory and frankly I've never experienced any of the aforementioned and have always found Creative Resource Managers to be the kindest, most generous, most professional people on the planet.

That's not to say that my dealings with these super-dooper, uber-ad people have not changed.

They have.

You see when I first started freelancing eleven years ago, when I was 33, I was working with industry legend Jean Robaire. He had connections in NY and would often loop me into a gig that would go 2-3 weeks. We'd finish one assignment. And then an hour later, we'd get a call to start another.

When Jean went back to NYC, I went back to my alma mater, Chiat/Day -- even though I had been fired two years earlier -- where they still found a need for a writer who could complete a proper sentence.

Here again, one job got extended into another. And I quickly found myself putting out fires on multiple fronts. One month got extended into two. Two into three and three months into a year. Before I knew it, one year had almost become four.

In the world of freelancing I had struck the jackpot. I was an eternally extended permalancer. Earning more than the staffers, yet going home with half, correction, none of the stress they regularly brought home to their spouses.

"…And then the planner tells me the campaign doesn't seem to capture the voice of the brand! Voice of the brand? As if people sitting in their living room can tell a god damn difference between the Triscuit voice of the brand and the Wheat Thin voice of the brand. They're fuckin' crackers!!!!"

Following Chiat/Day I found myself with long extended gigs at RPA and David & Goliath.

Lately however, it seems the freelance extension has gone the way of the AOR. It's just not done anymore. At least for me.

Either I'm a victim of my own success, that is my ability to work fast and efficiently.

Or I'm too expensive in this current era of Bean-Counter Driven advertising.

Or I need to switch my brand of toothpaste.

Because more often than not. I'm shuttled in for a week. Or three days. Or even one day. A brief is quickly turned into a manifesto, a bevy of spots, or a laundry list of ambitious half-baked digital ideas that will never see the light of day. And that's it.

Wham-Bam-Thank You Old Man.

"Thanks Rich. We'll call you again soon."

Maybe I should start flossing three times a day?

Last week I was paid one of the highest, though useless, compliments I've ever heard.

Friend and competitive copywriting colleague, Jeff Weakley stated in his review of my recent book…

"Rich is the first freelance copywriter I would hire if I needed to write something funny."

High praise, right?

The problem is, nobody seems to need to write something funny.

When was the last time you saw something truly funny on TV? Or heard something funny on the radio? Or read something funny in a magazine (dinosaur alert)? OK, came across something funny on the interwebs?

I'll wait.

You see, with the exception of Weiden & Kennedy, the absurdist fare from Gerry Graf and the unbeatable deadpan delivery by Blake Griffin in those Kia spots, it seems laughter is no longer in vogue.

Today brands are all about attaching themselves to causes. As if corporate altruism were some magic panacea.

"When you buy a Carrier Central Air Conditioning unit, we'll donate a nickel to the Feed the Children Foundation. So now you can feel good about feeling good."

There's also a lot of tear-jerking going around.

"Your assignment today is to craft a 2 minute short viral film that will tug at our target audience's heartstrings and make them feel different about our Monroe Shock Absorbers."

And finally, there's this unfounded belief that brands can be built online, for no money, by offering consumers a warehouse-sized toy store of frivolous, fuckwadian digital knick knacks.

"Upload your headshot and Kelloggs will turn you into a Lucky Charm."

As recently as last year, I was brought in to an unnamed agency to come up with a sharp, observational humor campaign for an unnamed client. Work that had the same vibe as our earlier ABC campaign. So that's what I gave them. I wasn't around for the presentation but I'm told the client thought the work was, "too smart."

I've seen what they put on the air. And I'm proud to say that client was 100% right.

Damn, I miss the days of "That's a some spicy meatball."

If funny ever comes back, you know where to reach me.
I'll be at my keyboard whoring my book .


Turn on a baseball game in April or May and I'm more likely to change the channel to something else.
Anything else.

Hell I'll watch one of those House Hunting reality shows.

"Bob and Helen are retiring from their jobs as flange assemblers. And now they want to want to buy an oceanfront home on the beautiful island of Maui. She wants access to good shopping. And Bob wants to be close to the ocean so he can take up parasailing. They only have $125,000. Can they leave the brutal, icy winters of Detroit for the warm trade winds of Hawaii. Stay Tuned."

I'll stay tuned. Just for the remote chance of seeing Bob, sporting his Detroit Lions Speedo, getting hoisted in the air by a 400 horsepower cigarette boat.

The point is, I'm not watching baseball in the spring.
But come October, it's a whole other ballgame.

The wheat has been separated from the chaff. I have no idea what that means, but as of today, there are only 4 teams in contention for the World Series.

When the stakes are this high, so is my interest level.

Watching baseball on TV has its own rhythm and language. It's slower and more thoughtful than football. With all the strategies and moving pieces and detailed attention given to each pitch, its more akin to a chess game. Had you not known this, I fancy myself a pretty good player at chess.

And I like the sportscasters. Much more so than the football announcers.

Gruden is a loudmouth who can't stop talking. Collingsworth never fails to mention his glory days with the Bengals, an oxymoron. And Trent Dilfer should be taken to the woodshed. And left there.

Give me Ernie Johnson and his solid play by play.
Give me Cal Ripken and his admirable hardworking lunchpail mentality.
And give me Ron Darling whose baseball prescience never ceases to amaze.

"With the count 0-1, this would a good opportunity for Hernandez to get a good jump on the ball. Maybe play a little Hit and Run."

Guess what happens 5 tenths of a second later?

If I have one bone to pick, and this happens every year, I still don't have a solid grasp on the differences between all the various pitches.

A four seam fastball looks a lot like a two seam fastball.
What's the difference between a Cutter and a Slider?
And for god's sake tell me or show me how a breaking ball moves in a different way than a curve ball.

I found this handy visual chart.


But I'm not sure it does me much good. Or if it would have done me much good when I played Little League baseball at Vilardi Fields in Suffern NY. As the second string catcher I went an entire year without a single hit. Though the coach said I had taken a lot of "good cuts."

Once I hit a ball, a fastball I believe, so hard it went sailing over the fence. About a foot and a half left of the Foul Pole.

A perfect metaphor for my life.

Who said advertising doesn't work?

Ever since the NFL preseason started back in March, ESPN, The NFL network, Fox Sports and all the broadcast networks have been showing spots for Draft Kings and Fan Duel. The two premier online gambling sites for those who live vicariously through Fantasy Football.

Fantasy Football has been around for years.
And for years I've successfully resisted the urge to get involved.

Frankly, the idea of gathering around a bunch of drunk guys to watch NFL football and root for individual players, as opposed to teams, seemed a little self-defeating. And confusing. Plus, I don't own any football jerseys, which, ironically enough, are not cut to fit my barrel-chested torso.

But with all the advertising played during the games and the depiction of regular schmucks taking home millions of dollars in winnings, it was only a matter of time before I succumbed to the siren song of false promises and instant get-out-of-my-shitty-neighborhood wealth.

So, last week, a week I'm told had the highest numbers of players ever, I signed on to the Fan Duel website and plunked down my $25 deposit.

Mind you, I'm no football junkie, but I know who the good players are.

And I know when those good players are matched up against inferior teams, they are going to be at the best.

So while so many of my best laid plans have turned into shit sandwiches lately -- my tropical vacation along the seaweed-covered beaches of the Yucatan, the release of my new book which did not rocket to the NYTimes bestseller list as I had hoped, and my numerous clever attempts to quiet the god damn dog that lives in the house behind me -- my foray into Fan Duel proved to be an immediate success.

In just my first outing, I placed 26th in a field of 100 and doubled my money. I'd like to thank Peyton Manning for his solid performance. Julian Edelman (always good to have a Jew in the lineup) had a decent weekend. And finally Antonio Gates, who had a stellar return to the lineup and vaulted me into the winner's circle.

I won.
And doubled my money.

I can see where this thing can become addictive. In fact, after completing this blog posting, I'm going to begin some exhaustive research about the league's top running backs and their performance against teams that play the Nickel Defense.

But don't expect me to be bringing the Tostitos to any Sunday football parties to partake in the, wait this is from an old actual advertising brief, "shared moments of fried, chip-based conviviality."

Nope, I'm still flying solo. Cause I still can't wear those official NFL Jerseys, made from strange polyester blend that makes me sweat.

Profusely, I might add.

This is troubling.

First my new book, Round Seventeen & 1/2 rankled the finer sensibilities of our British cousins in the Planning Department . And now it seems the firestorm has struck our own shores.

Following the successful conclusion of Advertising Week in New York City last week, wherein down-and-out street people were paid $9.72 an hour to prance around in hot, sweaty furry costumes…


… Nancy Hill, CEO of the AAAA, addressed the huddled masses with words of warning.

I would share the contents of her fiery anti-Rich Siegel speech but there might be small children in the room.

Fortunately, I have a mole inside the organization who forwarded me this scathing letter from Ms. Hill.




What have I done to deserve such scorn?


I'll be honest with you.

Actually, I've always been honest with you, that is why I suspect many people come to read Round Seventeen; brutal, unfiltered, career-killing honesty™.

But today I'm going to be honest-er.

There are times when I just feel like calling it quits.
Put an end to this blog.
And simply pull the plug.

Why? Not because I've run out of things to say. To be completely frank with you, I often get tired of hearing my own voice. Let's face it, 44 years with this kvetching, neurotic, pain-in-the-ass inner voice is a long, long time.

And so today, I'm going to go light.

Last week I was in the hospital. I should say, I was visiting someone in the hospital, my uncle -- another Siegel who has a Master's Degree in Kvetching and Neurosis.

Seems to me I've been spending a lot more time in hospitals. My uncle was having his knee replaced at Cedar Sinai. And not too long ago, my brother did a stint at St. Vincent's after he zealously overdid his first session at a Spinning Class.

I have never spent a night in the hospital bed. Not once. Ever. Nor do I want to, so I religiously exercise and eat sensibly.

On the way out of the hospital the other night, I spotted this sign (see photo above.)

Innocuous enough, right? A hallway sign passed by doctors and nurses daily, more than a few thousand times a day. And always without notice.

Until that is, I decided to whip out my iPhone and snap a photo of the sign near the water fountain.

An African American Anesthesiologist, walking in the other direction, stopped in her tracks to see what I had found so interesting.

She took a closer look and for the first time saw the sign in a new light.

"Oh yeah, it does look like the person in the wheelchair is about kick him in the ass" she thought.

She turned and walked away towards the operating room or to see her next patient. And as she did, I heard her giggling.

That made my day.

Woody Allen, Norman Mailer and the Bukake Phenomena

I know this post will have the appearance of me whoring my new book (and we can never have enough of that) but trust me it's not.

Resisting all temptation, I will not even include a link to the 67,314th best selling book. Or even a gratuitous shot of the cover -- particular since a hi-res version sits directly to the right.

But seriously, this post is not about selling the book. It's about writing the book. More accurately, taking on the endeavor to get the book out there.

Because therein lies the greatest reward.

If you are an advertising copywriter or art director -- and my amazing research staff tells me you are -- or even if you have the slightest creative inkling, you know how difficult it can be to take the flint of an idea all the way to fruition.

In the corporate world it just doesn't happen.

There are a thousand "No's" for every qualified "yes". And for every qualified "yes" there are a hundred ass-covering sycophants who don't sharpen a pencil without cc'ing the Boss. And for every clueless boss there are the privileged few in the C-Suite, who have Peter Principled their way to the top and have no problem saying, "this is nice, but we need to go in a different direction."

If I've seen this phenomena once, I've seen it 1,894 times in my career. Not that I've been counting. Or keeping track. Or writing names down on a list.

Let's say an idea does make it to the point where invoices are created and checks are being written. Let's say you're moving into production.

That's when the real fun begins.

It's been said that success has many fathers. I'm not fond of that imagery. It denigrates fatherhood and it diminishes the sense of responsibility. In the ad world, if an idea moves forward, it's more like a thousand-participant bukake.

(I'll pause here to let those who are unfamiliar with the term, Google it.)

By the time everyone and anyone has "put their two cents in", the thing that started as an idea now looks like an industrial accident at a lotion factory.

"Clean up on Aisle Five... And aisle six... And seven."

Which brings me back to the book. Again, no selling.

Three years ago, I had this crazy thought that I should experiment with longer form writing. Longer than the 700-800 words that usually go into a blog post. I learned that most short stories are about 4,000 to 5,000 words in length. So I started digging through my mental files for stories I had accumulated in my 44 years on this Earth. Then I started writing them out.

The first few were no good. I decided to switch from first person to third person. And freely borrowed some techniques from Woody Allen, Jean Shepherd and even fellow copywriter Shalom Auslander. I took my time and slowly amassed a collection that met my admittedly low standards.

Yes, I had help from my friends Robert Prins (who designed the cover) and Rachel Plecas (who did the first round of proofreading) and Theo Wallace (who did the second round of proofreading) and Bonnie Miguel who helped with the formatting, but in the end, my idea for a book became a book.

And it came out better than I thought it would. Without the watchful eye of an ECD or CCO. Or  meaningless input from a client who has never crafted anything more complicated than a bowl of macaroni and cheese. Nevertheless, it's something I can look at and say it's good and was worth the work.

Mind you, the Pulitzer people are not gathered around the table for late night discussions on the merits of the storytelling…

"The intricate weaving of Feldman's professional woes and his personal demons reminds me of the early works of Norman Mailer."

But there is an undeniable satisfaction stemming from the simple fact that I did what I set out to do. "How satisfying?" you might ask.

Ironically, I'm at a loss for words.

It was late Fall. Later than now. And the Boston Red Sox were battling the St. Louis Cardinals in the pivotal game 5 of the World Series.

David Ortiz, the epitome of the Fat-but-Fit Movement (I'm charter member #5,831) was stepping up to the plate with two men on base and, clearly ahead in the count, looking for a pitch he could drive over the wall.

But then my front doorbell rang.

It was my neighbor from across the street. A woman in her mid thirties, with three kids under her belt and a nose for the impulsive.

"We're going camping this weekend. Can we borrow the Yakima?"

Are you crazy, I thought. It's the middle of October. And it's a Thursday night. You can't just pack up a family of five, and without a reservation, stroll onto a campground and get a site. This is California, home to 400 million other people who all want to do, what you want to do, when you want to do it.

It was about 7 o'clock at night and my neighbor's husband was still at work. That meant, not only did I have to lug out the 21 cubic foot box out of the garage, I had to curtail my World Series watching, and futz with the wonky locking mechanisms to attach it to her Toyota minivan.

I did my best to smile, but muttered mightily as she watched me spend 45 minutes bolting the bulky cargo box to the roof rack.

My neighbor is not an easy woman to say "No" to, mostly because she never says no to anyone else.

Besides I thought, having lived in the neighborhood for more than 20 years and having had my fair share of unpleasant encounters with white trash neighbors of the most obnoxious variety, it was rather nice to have this impulsive, sweet-natured, a little-off-her-rocker woman, living directly across the street from us.

Moreover, my neighbor often hired my daughters to do some baby-sitting. And anyone who puts money in my kid's pockets other than me is alright in my book. She also was wired into the neighborhood and seemingly knew everything that was going on. And would stop by our house with leftover produce from her garden, with all the good veggies (kale, cauliflower, radishes and turnips), you know, the kind of vegetables that make you want to say, "When is dessert?"

But last week, this one-of-a-kind woman, this one-in-a-million people, was taken from us.

Suddenly.
Cruelly.
Unfairly.

For the past seven days I have been shaking my fist at the God I don't believe in. Asking the same questions her family and friends have been asking.

How is this possible?

How could you, God of Mercy, all loving one, do this to her husband and her now four very young children?

Of all the crappy people on this planet, why would you take one of the good ones?

And not just a good one, but one of the best ones. A gentle woman of unusual spirit and light. A woman who will be remembered by all who knew her.

What kind of mean, stupid, and irresponsible God are you?

It's October again.
The World Series is approaching.
And I can't help thinking I'd give anything for my doorbell to ring and hear my neighbor's soft, wispy voice…

"Rich, can we borrow the Yakima again?"


Fellow blogger, sometime follower, and legendary British adman Dave Trott  came across a troubling letter.

Naturally he thought it would be of great concern to me and emailed a copy, post haste.

I've made some enemies in my day, but never did I think it would reach such monumental, and apparently very official, proportions.

I invite you to read:



Holy shit, I guess some folks on the other side of the pond have no sense of humor and have no plans of buying my book .

That's the last time I ever purchase haggis again.

Weeks ago, Donald Trump mistakenly mentioned how he found his daughter quite attractive -- a concept that I, a father of two daughters can't get my head wrapped around. With shovel firmly in hand, and the hole getting deeper, Trump said would even consider dating her.

You know, if she weren't his own flesh and blood.

Well, last week Vladimir Putin was sucking up the news cycle. Which got me wondering about his two daughters, seen in the picture above. And you thought I picked the photo (above) just going for the gratuitous, lurid shot of the onion rings.

Naturally, this brought me back to a blog I had done earlier this year on Russian Dating Sites. You can go back and revisit the piece here .

Having been married a long, long, long time, I never had the pleasure of Internet dating. But friends, younger than 44, tell me it's not the candy store of romance it's made out to be.

For instance, meet Ludmilla. And an excerpt from her profile page.


"Tell me where it hurts, my little Kosack. Ludmilla will make it better. Then Ludmilla will take giant eggplant and beat you on head until you surrender like the fascist dogs who dared to step foot in Stalingrad. Then I will make it better again. And the cycle of love will be set in perpetual motion. Call me, I am Ludmilla."

Maybe Cosplay is not your thing.

Maybe you're into trucks and cars and things that fit in trucks and cars. Say hello to Svetlana.


She may not be the brightest 500 watt bulb in the refurbished 1987 Ford Taurus, but what she lacks upstairs is more than made up for in her stylish good looks and her unbeatable curves. That's enough junk in the trunk for two lonely Siberian oil drillers.

I'm told Internet dating is a lot like selling real estate. And any real estate agent will tell you, you can't have an open house without good staging.

No one knows staging better than Vladlena. She's been plying her wares on the Internet since the Internet was born and she's got the 1995 600 cc Tandy microwave oven to prove it.



In addition to being a rabid AC/DC fan, Vladlena is interested in Interior design and is going for her Master's Degree via an online correspondence course at the University of Minsk. When not rocking out the heavy metal or looking for new Russian walls to adorn with tropical bamboo, you'll find Vladlena enjoying a freshly-nuked Hot Pocket (a nickname given to her by an old boyfriend.) By the way,  Hickory Ham & Cheddar is her fav.

And finally -- I'm knowlingly violating the Comedic Rule of Three -- meet Evgeniya.



This fire-breathing Georgian likes her armaments. And her ottomans. Evgeniya is a world traveller and has been to gun shows in Poland, Uganda, Laos and Florida. If it isn't clear from the picture it should be, she's all about living the unrestrained life.

I could spend all morning going through these fascinating photos and profiles. But I probably should get back to work. I forgot, I'm on the clock and somebody is paying me right now. Not to indulge in my love of kitsch but to churn out banner ads for a new data storage vehicle.

Before I go, I'll leave you with the Russian beauties who didn't make the cut in today's blog:


Don't know if you were aware of this, but last week in NYC was Advertising Week.

I bring this to your attention because last week was noticeably devoid of any Facebook links or Tweets or Retweets from this mammoth extravaganza on behalf of the advertising industry.

Odd I thought.

Particularly in light of so many fascinating panels and forums about where and how our business is going. Take an almost verbatim (from the program) look at what you missed:

Demystifying B-To-B Buying 2015 and Beyond
-- a scintillating look at linear and sequential purchasing decision making processes and the provocative implications these have on the disintermediation of digital buying behaviors.

Holy shit, I bet they had a hard time finding enough folding chairs for the audience.

Direct to Consumer: OTT and the Future of Video Entertainment
--2015 has been a year of of expansion and experimentation. Amidst the frenzy of activity, participants in the value chain-- pure-play OTT players, broadcasters, telcos, content companies and advertisers-- are facing more questions than answers.

I hope they had enough popcorn for everybody.

What Marketers Who Know Mobile Marketing Don't Want You to Know
-- Experts reveal the findings from a $2 million research project that was two years in the making. Comprehensive. Exhaustive. Enough Big Data for two panels.

Gonna need some beefy bouncers and some red velvet rope to control the crowds itching to get in this one.

Those were real panels by the way. And that was just the first day. I couldn't stomach my way through the remainder but I'm pretty sure they never discussed the issues or had anything meaningful to say about the day-to-day stuff that touches all our lives.


If I were in charge of Advertising Week, these are some of the panels I'd set up:

Re-Planning the Planning
-- How is that it takes 9 weeks to prepare a one page Planning Brief leaving only three days to conceive, photoshop, powerpoint and assemble a 359 page deck of creative? Panelists will conduct a lively discussion on the vague definitions of "off brand", "off strategy" and "I don't know why but it's just not working for me."

Clients Who Demand Actors With More Energy
-- Not every bite deserves a smile. Educating clients who insist they know more about dramatic performance than the performers or the people they pay millions of dollars to deliver that performance. Yes, the line could be delivered with more energy, but that would be stupid.

Anthropology, Architecture and the 2016 Creative Department
-- Cutting edge architects will discuss maximizing agency revenue while minimizing expensive employee footprint. Jay Chiat's Virtual Office reshaped the 1990's. But the new SuperCage™ will redefine the way creatives go about their business in the late two thousand teens. Attendees will be given a sneak preview of the exciting new design, still in beta.

Where are all the good ideas?


I have a good idea: let's stop saying, "a good idea can come from anyone and anywhere."

It's Bullshit.
And the people spouting that nonsense know it's bullshit.

It's Morale Building 101.

"Yeah, we can't give out raises or bonuses this year. And nobody gets an office. And we'll need you to work the weekend, Christmas weekend, but the good news is we're all in this together and who knows who'll come up with the game changing idea."

Based on years of experience, I can tell you it won't be the Assistant Account Coordinator who regularly messes up the late night dinner orders.

It won't be the old Media dude who has been crunching numbers since they introduced the Donovan Data System.

And I'll put my nuts on the block and posit it won't be the bean-counting office manager Nazi who has set up a DropCam in the mailroom to see who has been pinching the purple Post It notes.

Because here's the truth of the matter, a good idea is rare. And it needs to be nurtured, protected and supported. Not tossed in the waste basket because it's only the first or second round of presentations. Not marginalized because it's a smidge to the left or right of the precious strategy. And not minimized by pinning it up on a wall with a hundred, scratch that, a thousand mediocre ideas gathered at the agency brainstorming session.

Or Idea Rumble.

Or Synapse Symposium.

Or Conceptapolluzza.

Or whatever fakarkta name some clever ass-nugget in Planning came up with.

I'm all for the democratization of technology, but diametrically opposed to its ugly cousin, the commoditization of creativity.

There isn't a formula for what we do. There's no science to it. It's a little commerce mixed in with a lot of magic. And sometimes the recipe can be amended with a generous helping of caffeine and a dash of Vicoden.

Moreover, it takes experience. I didn't have a good idea until I spent 17 years spitting out bad ones.

Sadly, at least in the ad world, we are not drowning in a sea of good ideas. The landscape is as barren  as a 10 acre parcel of unsold land in the Mojave desert.

Of course, this is just my opinion. A perspective. A theory, if you will.

Should you require any further evidence, I invite you to turn on your television.


The US government first started issuing warnings about the dangers of cigarette smoking in the early 1970's. It took millions of dollars in messaging and countless campaigns over the decades, but we are finally seeing a decline in teenage smoking. As well as deaths related to lung cancer.

Similarly, the LGBT community has been fighting an uphill battle for decades. And only after persistent, relentless efforts have the mores in this country begun to change. It wasn't until the year 2015 that a percentage of United States citizens have been granted the rights sworn to all United States citizens. Take that Kim Davis.

The point is, people are slow to change. And will go down, kicking, screaming or waving a Bible before they do.

But the power of the pen is mighty.
And persuasion has never been a sprint, but a marathon.

Which brings us to my new book (and what doesn't?), Round Seventeen &1/2: The Names Have Been Changed to Protect the Inefficient


Many of you have bought the book. And had the good grace to call or write and tell me how much you've enjoyed it.

But, and this is a very big but, so many, many, many more of you haven't.

And that will just not stand.
Nope.
Not for one minute.

You might as well head on over to amazon before you even finish reading this, because I have just begun the whoring.

I will be on Facebook, Linkedin, and Twitter. Hell, I'll sign up for Plaxo, if it gives me an additional forum to hawk my book.

I will be the Draft King/Fan Duel of social media advertising.

Remember when I did Theme Weeks here on Round Seventeen and devoted entire weeks to: Things Jews Don't Do, Famous Celebrities I Have Worked With, or Foods That Made Me Hurl?

I'm prepared to do a whole month of book promotion and nothing but shameless book promotion.

But Rich, I can hear you saying, isn't that a little self-destructive?

Of course it's self-destructive, I've built an entire career on pissing off people, shooting myself in the foot, failing to capitalize on success and taking three catastrophic steps backward for every one step forward.

In fact, i t's all in the book .

I was never a fan of MAD magazine, that is the magazine itself, which I found a bit childish.

But I devoured the MAD published hardcover books. You know, the material intended for the more discerning reader of sophisticated sophomoric humor.

You can keep your Robinson Crusoe, your Treasure Island and your homespun Mark Twain tales of life along the Mississippi, these are the books that shaped my life.

Wise asses aren't born, they're made.

Sadly however, in this sanitized world of corporate communications, where every good idea must pass through a gauntlet of small-minded over thinkers, there is little room for snappy or snarky. There is however plenty of room, wider and longer than the state of Kansas, for snoozy, stupid and inane.

I'm looking at you, people posed in front of the Statue of Liberty talking about your car insurance.

Or you, young couple taking two cars to the airport to pick up the in-laws and racing home on a bet.

And you, gaggle of vanilla white hikers in your $500 hiking shoes and your carb-free, taste free Michelob Ultra.

But then there is the Internet, a medium that allows for, and demands, instantaneous response far from the myopic eyes of corporate bureaucrats.

Last week Doritos, in support of LGBT rights, put out a bag of chips with a rainbow sticker.



There may be starving African children or weak Syrian immigrants hoofing over 1000 miles to reach safety, but right wing Christian extremists have far more important things to worry about. Like deep fried tortilla chips twisting the minds of nacho-eaters and promoting the homosexual agenda.

Pointy headed people with a keyboard and a 5th grade education took to the Twittersphere to give Doritos a piece of their mind, which unsurprisingly is not in great supply.

That's when Mike Melgard, posing as a representative for Doritos stepped in and stepped up to the plate with some snappy answers to stupid questions.

You can read some of the gems here .

Apparently, Mike, a fellow union member of WiseCrackers, Local #517, was not in the employ of the Frito Lay Company, makers of Doritos. But in my mind should be.

While scanning job boards, smiling and dialing, and plying my wares as a freelance copywriter, I see hundreds of ads for Social Media Managers.

I have no idea what they do. I'm guessing they snowball their way through meetings with their finely-honed expertise of Instagram, SnapChat, Figgle, Jazzle and a hundred other platforms I've never heard of.

But if it were up to me, and clearly it's not, every Fortune 500 company would and should have a high paid hired gun who can take to the Internet, armed to the teeth with wit, cunning and lightning fast bon mot.

Did I mention that this on staff jester should be highly paid?


Not easy on the eyes is it?

A collection of vintage glass eyeballs. They're not functional. The wearer would simply pop them in and out of the eye socket to cover the gaping hole in his or her skull.

That's about as much as I want to know, or see, about glass eyeballs. And yet I have a friend who has a vast collection of these glorified painted marbles.

I have another friend who collects clown paintings. (I know I have some dark friends.)

And know of another who collects Tiki mugs.

I collect Nothing.

Though in my garage you would find 15-16 years worth of accordion file folders stuffed jelly-tight with old utility bills, spent checks and sad, put-me-in-a-dirty-nursing-home portfolio statements.

I bring all this up because I read an article the other day about a family fighting over the heirlooms left by their deceased parents. It might have been a collection of antique spoons or a menagerie of stuffed animals. In any case, it seemed pretty pitiful that these siblings were brought to tears, and I believe to court, over the possession of some stupid trinkets.

My parents, also deceased, left me with nothing of the sort. With the exception of a few old photos, the only meaningful item I could lay my hands on is a T-Shirt from one of the Outward Bound Survival Schools my father had attended.




It's kind of ratty.
And moth-eaten.
And stretched out.
But my wife still won't let me wear it.

This shirt was from Leadville, Colorado, where as a 53-year old man, my father climbed Pike's Peak, with a bunch of twenty and thirty year olds. He almost had a heart attack at the summit.

I can't stand it when these old dudes just don't understand their place in this world.

He also did an Outward Bound in Maine, where for 10 days he lived and worked on a sailboat off the rough coastal waters near Newfoundland. And because Al Siegel could never test himself enough, he also enlisted for an advanced Outward Bound School on the Deschutes River in Oregon.

Recently, I was clearing out my garage and found a touching letter to my father from a fellow student at the Deschutes River school. It was handwritten by a woman. And got me thinking that perhaps my father was doing some illicit Inward Bound activities.

But I looked the woman up on Facebook and she turned out to be a soup-making, incense-burning, leaf-eating, happily-married lesbian.

Back to my original point….

Oh yeah, I've never been a collector. And at 44 years old it might too late to start collecting now. When my time comes, my kids and my grandkids can duke it out over the mass of financial forensics they' ll find in the garage.

"I want the cancelled checks of 1999."

"You can have them as long as I get the electricity and Internet bills from 2005-2007."


The minute you take to social media to start plugging your book , is the minute you are bombarded with requests from other authors who want you to buy their book.

It becomes an instant zero-sum game.

You can barely see the brick on my front porch thanks to all the cardboard boxes that have just arrived from Amazon. Chances are I'll never get around to reading them, but I kept my word with friends and colleagues and fulfilled the time-honored notion of quid pro quo.

(Now checking Google to make sure I used the Latin phrase correctly)

One book I'm glad I've cracked open comes from Bob Hoffman.

I've never met Bob. Once, I did apply for a job at his old agency Hoffman/Lewis with the hope of moving up to San Francisco, buying a house overlooking Half Moon Bay and making weekend retreats to Carmel and Pebble Beach, but Bob never hired me. I didn't even merit a return phone call.

But you know me,  I never hold a grudge.

Bob and I now know each other through the blogosphere. Bob is even older than me, I'm 44. And interestingly enough, it's old timers (dinosaurs, the kids like to call us) like myself, Bob, Jeff Gelberg and George Tannenbaum who are actually telling stories and making the most of social media.

This, despite the often heard knock, that we "just don't get it."

If you don't read Bob's blog, The Ad Contrarian , I suggest you do. After you've read Roundseventeen, of course.

Bob and I are cut from the same cloth, therefore it's not surprising that we share, or overshare, the same New York bluntness and philosophy. Here's a little excerpt that will demonstrate my point.

On the notion of being oneself in an ad agency, Bob suggests you don't.

To be successful in marketing, you have to be very careful not to be yourself.

* Do not speak in simple declarative sentences
* Do not express doubts about anything
* Do not tell your colleagues what pathetic kiss-asses they are
* Never disagree with highest ranking person in the room
* Remember, every sentence you speak must contain the word "brand" or "engagement"
* When a superior says the stupidest fucking thing you've ever heard, smile and nod.

Thanks Bob.

Now you tell me. Where where you about 15 years ago?

Happy Yom Kippur?

I don't know if I've told you, but I'm Jewish.

I might have mentioned it in the past, after all what Jew doesn't beat that dead horse for all it's worth. Particularly when you traffic in ranting, raving and pointless bloviating, as Seinfeld once famously pointed out, Judaism is the bottomless goldmine of comedic material.

Today is Yom Kippur, a day of atonement.

As I've also mentioned in the past, I don't have much to atone for.

I don't smoke.
I don't drink (to excess. or often.)
I don't change lanes without signaling.
I don't let my dog out at all hours of the evening to bark and wake up the neighbors.
I don't fight with my wife (to excess. or often.)
I don't cause trouble at work.
I don't park in the handicapped space, despite my chronic rage disorder.
And I don't litter, though many people these days are.

More importantly, not only do I have little or nothing to atone for, I don't know who I'd be atoning to.

I don't know if I've told you, but I don't believe in God.
Or Allah.
Or Jesus.
Or Pastafarian, the Flying Spaghetti Monster.

In years past, this has never stopped me from slapping on my monkey suit, sitting in temple to listen to some Hebrew gibberish and then abstaining from food for 23 hours and 45 minutes.

I don't know why I did it, I just did. Perhaps to honor my parents, my grandparents and their parents, who were mercilessly beaten up by Kosacks and always chosen last for the soccer team.

But, as a mortally-conscious 44 year old, I have dissuaded myself of the notion that they are somehow looking down on me. And judging.

"Step away from the matza ball soup it's not sundown yet. Do you want to disgrace 3,000 or 4,000 or 5,000 years (the number is always changing) of Jewish history?"

But this year is different. I have two kids in college. Out of state college with outrageous out of state tuitions.

So this year, I'll probably be working on Yom Kippur.

And I probably won't be fasting either.

Unless the guilt thing starts kicking in.

And there's always a good chance of that.


I try not to wade into presidential politics, particularly during an upcoming election season, but watching Ms. Fiorina command the stage and hearing about her past leadership at HP seemed like an engraved invitation.

I did some research and found that she was CEO of Hewlett Packard from 1999-2003.

I, myself have a short history with HP, starting in 1994.

Mr. Trump lambasted her for being unable to right the ship. Which begs the question, what kind of shape was the ship in before she took over.


This I know from first hand experience.

If you think of Apple under Steve Jobs as a benign dictatorship, Hewlett Packard, maker of the world's most fucked-up printers, was a decentralized model of dysfunctional Soviet communism, hung together with spit, band-aids and week-old snot.

My partner and I had the displeasure of managing the advertising for the Home Printing division. They were so decentralized at the time, they had a division (and a separate advertising agency) for every nut and bolt that emerged from their Boise Headquarters.

Printing Cartridges --- Y&R
Printing Ribbons -- JWT
Document Feeding Trays -- DDB
Electrical Chords -- McCann Erikson
Sliding Envelope Plastic Thingamajigs -- BBDO

I've never seen a company so completely, so utterly, so devastatingly mismanaged. And I'm 44 and have seen quite a bit.

To get one simple print ad approved and placed in a magazine, we had to earn the thumbs up of three marketing women, who insisted on focus grouping the ad in San Francisco, New York and Miami. Not coincidentally, cities where they could dine on exorbitantly expensive food and shop for Italian designer shoes.

They'd leave Idaho with a carry-on and an empty suitcase and return with enough footwear to sheath a small African village.

Between the lobsters tails and the Louboutins, they even managed to get a word in about the advertising.

It was never good.

The point is, Boise was a mess. Different agendas, budget hoarding, backstabbing and monumental, sometimes criminal inefficiency.

If Carly Fiorina couldn't get Boise in order, I doubt she'd have any better luck in D.C.


Oh no, you couldn't have possibly thought you'd escape with one or two Facebook posts about my new book and never hear another peep about it?

Besides, just weeks ago, right here, on this very blog, I warned you about the oncoming avalanche of self promotion.

Let's face it, the last time I published a book, Tuesdays with Mantu (if you want to call it that a book) was way back in 2005, when I was a naive Nigerian-goating 34 year old.

Today, I am wiser (debatable) and much savvier to ways of social media (also debatable.)

Also, it seems I might have left you with the mistaken notion that the book, Round Seventeen & 1/2  -- a stupid title that doesn't appear very easily on Google -- is merely a collection of essays, culled from the past 7 years of blogging.

That thought crossed my mind. But I am a Siegel, and as my family will attest, Siegels rarely take the easy route. And more often than not, we are rarely shown the easy route.

"Oh you want to visit the beautiful beaches of Cozumel. Here, rent these easy-to-drive mopeds and you will be there in un momento. Crashing? Nobody crashes a rented moped. Buenos dias amigo."

The book, is a collection of ALL-NEW (now I know why clients insist on saying that so often) short stories:

* about life in advertising

* about sex (if you've ever worked near the vicinity of Frank Gehry cardboard furniture you know there's always going to be rampant, illicit office sex)

* about death (if you've ever been saddled with a worthless, pea-brain client you've certainly entertained the notion about murder)

* about shitty food served in focus groups

* about the pernicious effects of alcohol consumption

* and finally, stories about revenge, reversal of fortune and redemption.

In other words, it's the feel good book of 2015.

I've been overwhelmed by the response so far. At this writing, the book is currently the 683rd most popular book on the Amazon book selling list.


Meaning, if this post results in one extra sale, we have a chance of surpassing:


Finally, and this is for housekeeping purposes. Some have asked whether there will be a Kindle version of Round Seventeen & 1/2? The answer is Yes.

As soon I figure out the html java script coding, I will confabulate the flik-flacks and pull the trigger on Kindle.

One final, final note, should you be inclined, feel free to leave a snarky, humorous review on the Amazon page. But you better bring your A-game, because I will bring mine.

Hell, that could be the beginning of my next book.

PS. One more big shout out to my friend Robert Prins for designing, redesigning, retweaking, and redesigning some more, the front cover. Robert took this assignment on like he takes every assignment on, with creativity, stamina, and 110% commitment. The folks at David and Goliath should be happy to have him.

It's Thursday morning and my eyes are bleary.

They're bloodshot.

And frankly, not worth a damn.

Last week, the proof of my manuscript came back from the publisher and to no one's surprise, particularly my wife, there were typos. This, despite the fact that I paid a proofreader to pick apart the document and spot the many errors. Every time I fixed a typo I found a place to tweak the wording. And every time I tweaked the wording I created more typos.

My back now has a permanent arch because of all the hours hunched over the computer fixing, tweaking and re-fixing this damn book. I've gone through the stories so many times they don't even seem funny or entertaining anymore. I'm convinced you'll agree.

So today, as I have done so many times in the past, I am going to give myself a little break.

No essay.
No rant.
No diatribe about advertising, parenting, God, Islamic terrorism or hairy, unwashed people in the swimming pool.

Just a snapshot I took (see above) of Jean Phillippe Paris, an eau de toilette I spotted on the shelves of a bait shop in Independence, California.

You might be wondering about the ethics of a copycat product like this, but the manufacturers of Jean Phillippe Paris have no such qualms. After all, they went out of their way to inform the educated eau de toilette consumer.


And they're absolutely right. For my money ($1.99) this smells nothing like Polo from Ralph Lauren.

But rubbed on an earthworm, it sure did catch a lot of trout.

I'm a sucker for Click-bait headlines.

Man eats snake and you won't believe what happens.  Turns out the snake was cut up into little bits and fried in garlic oil. The guy got diarrhea.

Couple rents guesthouse to two-headed alien. The two headed alien turned out to be a ventriloquist from Uruguay traveling on a bad visa.

Aided by a bottlenose dolphin, woman gives birth to 9lbs. baby boy. OK, that one wasn't click bait.

This is a real thing . And it's happening more and more among the post-millennial crowd who swear by artisanally grown cilantro and homeopathic herbal cancer cures.

What the fuck is wrong with these people? I think they have their Trilby hats on too tight and are not getting enough oxygen to their progressive pea-sized brains.

I've lived in California a long time.
And have been exposed to all kinds of self-improvement bullshit.

I've heard friends talk about having their chakras re-aligned. I had the wheels on my old Nissan Pathfinder re-aligned, cost me 279 bucks.

I've seen people go on 10 day cleanses. "I'm on Day 8. Ground up lemon rinds for breakfast, lunch and dinner."

And I know several folks who have done the sweat lodge thing. I don't need to sit in a lodge made of twigs and sealed with lichen moss to fire up a sweat, I work in advertising and have clueless planners, indecisive creative directors and cowering clients to do the trick.

Me?

I'm an FDA-approved lover of Big Pharma. Two weeks ago, I started coming down with a chest cold. My doctor wrote me a scrip for an extra-strong anti-biotic, Prednizone (a steroid), two inhalers, and a bottle of codeine-enhanced antihistamine that not only provided a good buzz, but knocked the stuffing of that bronchitis.

Problem now is, because the bronchitis has been dispatched, I can't get any more refills on the cough medicine.

And that's how you know something is good. When the government says you can't have any more of it.

Last week, we commemorated the attacks of 9/11. I made the conscious choice to post this horrifying image on my Facebook page.

It got a reaction. I knew it would.

Many saw it for what it was, a stark, painful reminder of the hopelessness and helplessness we came face to face with that day.

Others, who are entitled to their opinion, took me to task for what they saw as exploitative provocation. Perhaps they're right. But had they seen Friday's night's episode of the Bill Maher show, they might agree that we are in dire need of a little provocation.

Because, like it or not, the threat we unknowingly faced on 9/10/01 is exponentially greater today.

The Al Qaeda boys have been supplanted by ISIS, who don't operate in secret cells or train in hidden well-camoflouged camps.

They have their own country, a Caliphate no less. If you're not familiar with the term, I suggest you look it up. A Caliphate doesn't abide by international laws of sovereignty. A Caliphate is Manifest Destiny in its most evil form. There is only one border it recognizes, the line that separates man from Allah.

Moreover, the ISIS push to conquer land in Iraq and in Syria has displaced millions of moderate Muslims. Creating the worst refugee problem since World War II.

And where are these refugees going?  Not to nearby Saudi Arabia (one of the wealthiest countries on the planet) or Kuwait or Qatar. The Gulf States, within a bus ride from Syria, predominately Sunni Muslim and Arabic speaking, have taken in NONE of the refugees. None.

How does this jive with the notion of the Ummah (look it up) and the idea of Muslim brotherhood?

The refugees are going to Europe. And guess who wants them to go to Europe? The same people who dream of an all encompassing Caliphate and who created the name EurAbia. It's part and parcel of al hijrah, another term you should be familiar with.


Frankly, I don't know if the extreme Islamists could be any clearer with their intentions.

They said they would take down the World Trade Center, they did.

They said they will conquer Europe, by any means possible, they are.

And they said they will destroy Israel, as well as the Great Satan (the US) and institute Sharia law and all its wonderful precepts of dhimmitude (look that up too). Why would we not take them at their word?

I'm afraid the picture of a solitary man falling to his death is not just a picture of a solitary man falling to his death.

In light of our willingness to bury our collective heads in the sand and ignore the threat, it is a menacing metaphor for the future of western civilization.


It's a miracle.

Not like other legendary miracles that have visited my people. Like when one day's worth of lamb oil lasted 8 days and staved off an attack by Roman Centaurians.

Or when the Lord appeared on Earth as a burning rhododendron tree and told Moses his people should be set free after only 400 years of slavery. Not right away mind you, he had to put on his little dog and pony and locust and murrain show before that could happen.

Or even when my uncle showed up on my birthday, bearing a gift I would actually use -- a regulation Wilson Football -- and not itchy, woolen pants from Saks Fifth Ave.

Not like those miracles, but a miracle nonetheless.

You see, last week, after fighting with my cargo shorts, which had been falling off my waist lately, I stepped on a scale and noticed I had lost close to 15 lbs. I'm back below 200, where I haven't been in quite a while.

Losing 15 lbs. may not seem like much to you, but for someone who has been battling weight since my first breath of oxygen, it's noteworthy. Particularly since it happened so fast and without much effort.

What's the secret, you may be asking. Well, I'm going to give you the recipe:

Two daughters leaving the nest for college

Add equal parts of finishing a manuscript for a book of short stories that will surely hasten my professional demise

Throw in a Mexican vacation with no viable access to cash, a moped fiasco and enough seaweed to cover the state of Delaware

Mix in a tumbling stock market and the near daily calls from my broker to "stay the course"

Finally, for good measure, add a pinch of a heat wave and another summer without air conditioning

That, my friends is how you concoct the Siegel Stress Souffle.

The irony here is that I've been losing weight without trying to lose weight. I've actually been exercising a little less (60 minutes versus my usual 90) and eating less because I just don't have the appetite lately. So the whole thing has been effortless. Which is sort of like icing on the cake.

Maybe it's a sign that I need to give up the life of a freelance writer and go back on staff at an agency? Where there's no stress.

And free bagels.

Good God!

Last week Google unveiled its new revamped logo. Here, in the picture above, we can see two Stanford-educated millennials, who majored in industrial design and minored in Organic Chemistry, Quantum Physics and International Geo-Politics, discussing the angle of curvature on the lower portion of the letter 'g.'

"It's too swoopy. And indicates we are a soft, malleable company without a direction or strategy for the future."

"On the other hand, if the angle is too abrupt, it says we are a robotic company without a stake in humanity.Mmmmm?"

"Let's schedule a 2 A.M. loopback session with the team."

"I'll reserve the Armageddon War Room."

"I'll have my assistant order the Pad Thai noodles."

And that's where we are at in America.

Refreshing logos, while the Chinese figure out how to make things better, cheaper and faster. While India transcends the boundaries of time and space and talks us through all our customer service and software problems. And while Israel creates and develops the kind of advanced technology that even the most ardent BDS supporters can't wait to get their hands on.

We tweak logos.

We remove serifs.

We put out billion dollar press releases patting ourselves on the back for this remarkable advancement.

I don't say this enough, but I've been fortunate enough to make a career in advertising. Where, despite all the insanity, I have worked with some of the smartest, funniest, most creative people on the planet.

I've seen people tackle the most complex marketing problems and author solutions that are nothing less than remarkable in their beauty, simplicity and "Damn-I-wish-I-would-have-thought-of-that"ness.

Of course, nine times out of ten, those solutions were met by a stone-faced client…

"What else have you got?"

I've seen resilience. Talented writers, artists, and thinkers, sent back to the drawing board over and over again. And delivering answers, again and again and again. Some better than the first. Others, not so much.

And I've seen dogged determination. There's a kid who works at an agency where I often put in some gigs. He must be a cyborg. No one works harder. Or longer (a lot longer than I ever could or would.) He does amazing things with PhotoShop. And has a better work ethic than 535 members of Congress.

Combined.

It all has me scratching my head, wondering how have we managed to waste so much good intellectual capitol on banner ads, digital gadgets and TV commercials that have a shelf life of a terminally-ill housefly?

Maybe I'll do some research on the topic.

Bet I can find the answer over on Google.

Or Google.


I know what you're thinking.

It's Wednesday, September 9th, why aren't you and your wife at Black Rock, Nevada for the Burning Man festival?

From the body paint and the balloon head adornments you might have mistaken the couple in the picture for my wife and I, but rest assured. It's not us. We're in Culver City. Coming home from the supermarket.

"Why did you buy the Pike's Roast? You know I like the Starbuck's Breakfast Blend. That other coffee gives me heartburn."

Oh shit, you say, here's comes another Old Man Rant about crazy kids and their crazy antics.

But, actually no.

I like debauchery as much as the next fellow.
I like drinking to excess and letting my hair down, Hair #138.
I like letting loose under a starlit Nevada desert sky.
I like avante garde art, like this fascinating piece.



Or this:




Or this:


And you certainly won't hear me grouse about all the ample nipple exposure.

So what, other than a mortgage, two college tuitions, and the volatile stock market, keeps me from packing up the Lexus 460 LS and joining 100,000 professional partiers in the 110 degree heat?

If you've been a fan of RoundSeventeen you know the answer can best be summed up with one of our previous tag lines:

"L'enfer, c'est les autres."

 Or as Jean-Paul Sarte famously said, "Hell is other people."

Burning Man would be so much better for me if it didn't include so many other people at Burning Man.

Guys in pithe helmets, gone.

Guys in Steampunk attire, gone.

Guys in ironic Boy Scout uniforms, Speedos, body paint, horned hats, feather appendages, welders glasses, Elvis wigs, Native American costumes, puka shells, or any Nazi insignia, gone, gone and even more gone.

All those pretentious adornments are fine on women.

And in fact, I would encourage the 50,000 female Burning Man Attendees to have at it.

You see, ideally, My Burning Man Festival would include, a small smattering: a bunch of my friends, advertising colleagues, high school buddies and camping cohorts.

Musicians.

Artists.

A cadre of fireworks professionals.

And the aforementioned 50,000 painted, slathered in oil, nearly naked uninhibited woman.

Oh, and I guess I'd have to invite my wife, too.

The tent is going up and the prices are coming down.

They're goes my baby.

I nursed her from the beginning. Probably should have paid more attention to the details. But watched as she grew and grew. And reached full maturation. I know I should show some humility, but she's beautiful. And yesterday the full, corrected manuscript for my new book was sent off to the publisher.

Oh, by the way, my oldest daughter also shipped off to the University of Washington.

So now I am officially an Empty Nester. And if you looked at my recent portfolio statements and the dwindling savings accounts, you'd agree "empty" is the appropriate descriptor.

Two out-of-state college tuition bills, an ill-fated, choking-on-seaweed Mexican vacation, and the purchase of every dog barking repelling product known to the Amazon shopper, have left yours truly with just enough money for a bowl of sneaker soup.

Also, as if that weren't enough, it seems the business is in its late summer slowdown mode. And recruiters are shifting away from the skills that once seemed important in this business.

"We need a freelance copywriter with SEO expertise."

"I didn't see any Vines, case studies or SnapChat Chats on your portfolio page."

"We're moving away from words and pictures, those are so 20th century, have you done any work with emojis?"

No.

But I'm a fast learner.


But I didn't get to be a grizzled 44 year old copywriter vet without rolling over some rough patches or downed rented Mopeds in the road.

I know if there's one thing that appeals to agency brass, more than well-manicured beards, stingy brim Fedoras, impossibly-attractive job-hunting sorority girls, and space-efficient, sweatshop-assembly tables…er, "creative collaboration community centers", it's the prospect of saving money.

So in order to refill the coffers and refill them fast, this old schooler is going Old School.

Announcing my End of Year, Let's-Get-the-Siegel-Girls-Through College Clearance Days.

In the parlance of hood-pounding dealership showroom hawkers, "It's the best time of the year to get the best freelance copywriter on the planet.*"

SUPER LEGAL: Claims based on specious research and may not be valid in all 50 states. Best has not been approved by the FTC and/or the Google legal team. Planet does not include certain areas of lower Manhattan, Portland, Oregon, and the entire country of Brazil. Supply is limited. And discounts do not entitle purchaser to demand copywriting after 7:30 PM. And/or weekends. Certain restrictions do apply.

Day rate prices have been slashed.

Ok, maybe slashed is not the right word. Appropriately trimmed.
And the factory is announcing generous cash back incentives on longer term assignments.

Don't wait.

What are you waiting for?

Those manifestos aren't going to write themselves. There's chest-beating, corporate puff pieces and brand re-alignments that must be done. And though it's only September, the Super Bowl is just 6 months away. You can't go to the Big Dance unless you've demoralized an entire creative Department and burned through 178 scripts. If you're lucky.

Pfffft, I've got 177 Super Bowl dead scripts in my files just waiting to have some logos replaced.

Command C
Command V
Command USA Today Poll.

It's just that easy.

Just like the Syracuse Football Team win streak, this Sales event won't last forever. Pick up the phone, email siegelrich@mac.com, get me in your office and discover what so many have discovered before.

"He looks terrible for 44."


It's been close to two months since we visited the Eastern Sierras for our yearly camping trip.

So imagine my surprise when I ran across this treasure trove of B&W postcards stashed in the back of my duffel bag.

I remember coming across these vintage gems while re-upping our stock of rum at the local Chevron station/Liquor store/bait shop and thinking, "Only two bucks a piece, I'll gladly pay you $10 for these original snapshots of genuine, early California mountain humor."

Now, in retrospect and with the benefit of sobriety, I can see that was just the combination of alcohol and altitude talking.

They're funny.

They're just not 10 dollars worth of funny.




But it is the end of the week.

I'm tired.

And I've spent a lot more than six bucks for a blog posting.

A lot more.

Have a nice weekend.


Last week I received 10 identical emails.

These were not spam; the latest advancements in penile enlargement, romantic inquiries from Nigerian princesses or Helpful Tips for Writing the Perfect Resume (no one wants to look at the resume of a 44 year old copywriter, no one.)

The identical email regarded an article written by the late Linds Redding, a former art director who worked at Saatchi and BBDO. The piece, entitled A Short Lesson in Perspective can be seen here .

"Have you seen this, Rich?"

It was written three years ago but has somehow resurfaced on the Interwebs.

And repeatedly, in my Inbox.

I guess, because of my constant ranting, I have become a poster child for a better life/work balance. Please note that I have purposefully placed life before work.

I wrote a response to Mr. Redding's article three year's ago and indeed it is one of the Top Ten posts on RoundSeventeen. It's entitled, "I'm Outtahere" and you can see it just to the right of this column.

In three years the situation has not improved. In fact, it has gotten worse. A few weeks ago, a colleague posted a screen grab of a Meeting Notice Invitation. The notification was sent out at 3 AM for a reconvening of late night working employees to gather around in the big conference room at 4 AM!!!

People, the line has been crossed.

Unless you're pulling home a 7 digit compensation or have a piece of agency equity, chances are you are standing on the wrong side of that line.

Mr. Redding and I are not alone in this opinion.

Head on over to glassdoor.com and read some of the reviews on agency life, any agency, and you will see there is widespread concurrence on the issue. Just not by management, who seem to abide by the maxim…

"The floggings will continue until the morale improves."

But by the people who actually do the work.

It's out in the open. And it's being written about every day on the Internet.

Imagine if you ran a seafood restaurant. And night after night, diners were going home and logging on to Yelp to warn others about the rancid shrimp or the foul mussels. But you've chosen to ignore those loudmouths because your restaurant has an excellent view of the bay. Eventually, the heavy chains will be going up on the front door and beefy moving guys will be collecting the table linens and barstools and putting them up for auction.

In other words, agency C-Suiters and Holding Company officers:

It's time to do something because the clam chowder has gone bad.

We all know about the strong El Nino developing in the Pacific and its promise of unusually-high and much-needed precipitation here on the West Coast.

With any luck our reservoirs will be replenished.

Our snow pack will be thicker and deeper than ever.

And my lawn will take on a greener shade of brown.

But today, I'm here to warn you of a different type of onslaught.

You see, last weekend, after much noodling, proofreading, tweaking, cover redesigning, formatting, more noodling and check writing, I finally sent off the manuscript for my new book, Round Seventeen &1/2, The Names Have Been Changed to Protect the Inefficient.

And that can only mean one thing: endless, shameless, annoying, overbearing, suffocating self promotion.

You've been warned.

And if you're a reader of this blog you've been witness to my obnoxious perseverance. 1300 blog entries, some of them actually good, don't just happen overnight. As my fellow bloggers can attest, it takes discipline, caffeine and a willingness to rehash the obvious just to stay one step ahead of the writer's block.

I am apologizing in advance, but I just want you to be aware of what's coming.

I'm going to plug.
And plug.
And plug.
Then, when I start getting emails and tweets begging me to stop, I'm going to plug some more.

I might ask you to write a review on Amazon.

I might ask you to share any digital ink on FaceBook.

I might ask you to come to a book signing or a reading, though this is highly unlikely as I'm not given to public performances due to my problems with excessive perspiration.

The point is, I'm going to be relentless. And won't rest until my new book sits on the toilet lid of every person working in advertising. Or until I've fully recuperated the costs for this literary catastrophe.

Whichever comes first.

f you're looking for hypocrisy in advertising you don't have to look very far.

Last week, Crispin Porter & Bogusky, arguably one of the most creative shops in the land, fired their CEO and Chief Creative Guru Andrew Keller, one of the most talented creative guys in the land.

This, after 17 years of service.

17 years that produced Subservient Chicken, Whopper Freakout and a Mini campaign that set the bar for automotive advertising.

I don't know Mr. Keller and obviously have no agenda sucking up to a guy who is no longer employed, but 17 years is a long time, enough time to raise a child and send her a thousand miles away to pay outrageous, out of state college tuition.

Call me crazy, but whatever happened to this thing we call loyalty?

Every day I hear or read about the demise of agency/client relationships. Or the importance of establishing an AOR. Or how long term strategic marketing problems cannot be solved by short term, flighty jump ball assignments. But you plunk a microphone in front of an ad agency CEO and you're going to get a bloviating earful about loyalty.

We talk passionately about it and then we cavalierly axe people who have steadily drank the Kool Aid and bled the agency's team colors. I personally know of other ad folk, with a dozen, twenty and close to thirty years of service, tossed to the curb like some inedible, stale bear claw.

It doesn't end there.
Hardly.

Agencies are fond of getting on a soapbox and informing the world that "we are storytellers and artists." They talk a big game about how creative departments need to include poets, architects, musicians, photographers and not just people focused on advertising. And then they chain those people to their desks, or a long picnic table, and carve 80 hours a week out of their lives to do nothing but advertising.

Agencies can never stop talking about the democratization of technology. And the power of social media. But when was the last time you read an agency blog or engaged with an agency website or sat through an entire agency self promo? I'd prefer to be drawn and quartered, at least my back would get a good stretch.

Agencies like to position themselves as leading pop culture. Of being on the cutting edge. And a model of progressive thinking. And yet if you were to break down the demographics of the leadership, you'd have a hard time finding any women. Or African Americans. Or 44 year old copywriters. Or anybody frankly, that wasn't young, white, and bearded, with a closet full of fashionable European scarves and a medicine cabinet brimming with hair product.

Don't get me wrong, I love working at an ad agency. Or at least what an ad agency used to be.

But today I enjoy it from the perspective as an outsider looking in and not the other way around.

Should he follow the same freelance path, and once he accepts the fact that there are no free bagels in life, I suspect that in a very short while, Mr. Keller will feel the same way, too.

"They bought one of your spots."

And?

"It's going into production."

And?

"It'll probably be on the air in a month."

You'd think after writing and producing more than a few hundred TV spots during the course of my time in the ad biz, those words would get tired. But they don't. Fact is, there is nothing sweeter.

Particularly now that I am 44 years of age and in, what most would consider, the twilight of my career. When the best I could expect would be the occasional banner ad or maybe, with luck, the stars in the proper alignment and the good grace of God Almighty (see yesterday's post for ironic reference), an Internet page takeover.

But, against all odds and the ever-changing whim of an unnamed client, one of the ideas my partner and I came up with is in full production mode.

Of course as a freelancer I'm rarely brought in for the craftsmanship part of the craft. Which is fine with me. Fact is, I don't have the temperament for long hours on a set. Nor the inclination to sit around and wait until some Key Grips get just the right filter on the light. Or the client waffles between wardrobe selection.

"I can't decide whether I like the pullover or the V-neck sweater."

It takes excruciating pain to a new level. I am much more excited about solving the problem and coming up with the ideas that haven't been done before.

And apparently, despite my advanced age and dwindling capacity to hold my bladder, I still have what it takes.

I'm well aware that the finished spot will be quite different from the original script. There will have been tweaks, rewrites and many, many hurdles of corporate re-thinking and re-hashing. But the idea is essentially intact. And I might even get a slash in the credits.

Which gives me all the validation I need to know that my copywriting career is good for another 6-7 weeks.

At least.

If you follow the polls, and I do, you probably know the role of organized religion is decreasing in America. I find that to be quite encouraging. It's a trend that has been amplified by social media. And as I have made abundantly clear, I'm more than happy to spread the faith of faithlessness.

Of course this is often countered with the hypothetical…

"Rich, what if there is a God and you have to come face to face with him on Judgment Day?"

That's an excellent question, but I don't see why I should have to wait for this divine encounter.


GOD: Why have you gone out of your way to deny my existence?

ME: Why is it so important that I acknowledge your existence? I see my refrigerator everyday. I see my toothbrush everyday. I see my dwindling stock portfolio everyday. I don't need to stop twice or three times or even five times a day to recognize their they'reness. I don't want to shortchange you but if anything deserves my praise it's the coffee machine. I'd be lost without it.

GOD: How do you think it all got created?

ME: To be honest, I don't think it got created. I think it was always just here. Just like I don't think there is an end to space, I don't believe there is a beginning of time. I believe it is a concept beyond human comprehension.

GOD: Fair enough, but if the universe is so complex and so perfectly designed, surely something must have created it?

ME: The old Watchmaker Theory. Yes, I will concede the universe is incredibly complex. The gravitational pull of the planets, the careful prescribed orbits, the heat and light from the Sun just right to sustain life on earth. And perhaps elsewhere. Yes, one would assume all that necessitates a Creator. But then who created you?

GOD: I am God. I have always been. And always will be. I am beyond time and space.

ME: Hello! (said with a sarcastic shrug of the shoulders)

GOD: But I have given you my commandments and demand your respect.

ME: You also gave us a brain capable of solving differential equations, re-engineering DNA and digging a trough through Central America to connect the Atlantic and the Pacific. Why would you be surprised if we used that same brain to question your being and your mysterious ways. If anything I should be given extra credit for critical thinking…

GOD: You call that critical thinking? I call it glib, facile college freshman Philosophy 101.

ME: You're entitled to your opinion.

GOD: I have to get to an Alabama-Auburn football game, I think we're done here.

ME: While we're on the topic of respect? How about an explanation for Eichmann, the Kardashians, hair growing out of my ears, the last second jumper by Keith Smart to beat Syracuse in the 1987 NCAA Tournament, your fixation on bacon, American Airlines baggage policy, jihad, patriarchy, swamps, the Spanish Inquisition, cancer, kids with cancer, Ken Hamm and his stupid ark, and dogs. You give us these great loving animals and then you take them out of our lives way too soon.

All due respect God, you can be a bit of a douchebag.

GOD: OK, that's about enough.

ME: If you're going to send me downstairs can I get a different robe? Something in all cotton, not a polyester blend. I've got a thing with excessive sweating.

But then, you knew that didn't you?

Last week, or maybe it's been two weeks ago, between my Mexican vacation and dropping my daughter off at college my sense of time has been all out of whack, KFC did what nobody has ever done in the ad business -- they rolled out a second Colonel Sanders spokesperson, in the form of Norm Macdonald.

Maybe it's because I have a little history with Norm, but I thought the move was genius.

I actually ran into Norm at Margarita Mix about a month ago. Or maybe it was six months ago. Like I said the battery in my internal clock is dead.

I also used to see Norm, quite regularly, at the gym in Playa Vista. Naked Norm is quite different than clothed Norm.

And years ago I had my most inglorious encounter with one of the funniest men on Earth. I was in NYC for some business which invariably led to an expensive dinner and free flowing alcohol. After dinner, someone suggested we go to the Rainbow Room at Rockefeller Center. Before we boarded the elevator, we spotted Norm in the lobby. There was dutiful handshaking and selfies, none of which I can put my hands on. I'm pretty sure I invited him to knock down some whiskey with us.

"I have to go now."

In any case, I am in awe of the Weiden Kennedy move to give us two Colonel Sanders. If for no other reason than it messes with convention. It is, how one agency might put it, Disruptive.

For the first time in years, or maybe just ever, people noticed advertising from Kentucky Fried Chicken.

I even considered bringing home a bucket of the poultry that has never touched my lips, but then I remembered my 36 inch waist shorts were feeling a bit tight.

The cynical among you might believe the Norm Colonel Sanders was concocted in order to make up for the Daryl Hammond Colonel Sanders. I disagree. I believe the smart folks in Portland set this in motion from the beginning.

I read recently that each of us is exposed to 10,000 advertising messages a day. We've become so saturated with addyness the only way to stand out is to bravely mess with the form itself.

The Energizer Bunny did it brilliantly. Of course the client walked away from that approach and now what they're doing with the Bunny is not so brilliant.

When we were doing the ABC campaign, we wanted to roll out a different tagline every day. It would have been a logistical nightmare, but it was a TV network and we had the wherewithal to pull that trigger. The brass didn't see it that way and instead suggested we spend out time coming up with better promos for Hiller & Diller.

Will we see other clients or purveyors of fast food follow suit? I don't make it a habit of prognosticating, but I'm fairly confident the answer is a resounding No.

"I like the tomato slice through the water in Take 23 but the ripey redness in Take 41 was clearly better."

"And the iceberg lettuce snap in Take 19 was awesome sauce."

"Let's run this by the marketing committee and see which one they like."


Came across an article the other day about the importance of having a mentor. Not just in the ad biz, but in any business. Not sure it's going to resonate with many young people today as they tend to skate through the day thinking they already know it all.

I think we can agree, they don't.

(Hint to young unnamed copywriter, if I tell you a headline is no good or has been done a thousand times before, it would behoove you to pull your pants up and just listen.)

I've been fortunate enough to have several good rabbis in my life, none more impactful than Tony Stern.

If you work or live in the ad community in Los Angeles, you know there are two Tony Sterns. Being a ripened 44 year old copywriter, I, of course am referring to the older Tony Stern.

I met Tony years ago while he and his partner Jeff Roll (also a rabbi), were running the Nissan Regional Account at Chiat/Day. Tony needed a writer. He could have had his pick among many talented folks at the time, my contemporaries, including Jeff, the Other Jeff, Steve, Mike, Rick, Kenny and a host of others whose names I have forgotten.

And any of us would have snapped at the opportunity, because at the time getting into Chiat/Day was more difficult than getting into Fort Knox. Sadly, that is not the case today.

Tony and Jeff made sure they were getting their money's worth out of my partner and I. We did Sales Event ads, Parts Department brochures, flyers for the Fleet, and even retooled the service manual if memory serves me right. It was great training. And it was hard work.

But it was fun.

Presenting to Tony was always a gas. As a former gag-writer for the Tonight Show, he was primed to laugh. Loud. And hardy. And if he laughed at the work, he and Jeff usually sold it.

Unlike other rabbis, actually unlike other Jews, Tony likes to drink, so we hit it off right away. I remember at the conclusion of one horrendous pitch, Tony and Jeff took us for a blowout lunch at some fancy dinery on Abbott Kinney. When the 4 digit bill came around, Tony insisted on seeing the dessert drink menu and tacked on a couple of shots of ancient Courvoissier or some undrinkable cognac, bottled while the North was still battling the South.

Each one ounce glass was over two hundred bucks. It tasted like shit.

On the other hand, because the client was paying for it, it tasted like heaven.

Good times.

Most importantly, Tony and Jeff, two curmudgeonly old mensches taught me about trust. For one of the big year end clearance events, they allowed my partner and I to pitch and produce an entire unscripted, improvised campaign shot on hand held video. We brought in radio legend John Crawford and spontaneously filmed people in Los Angeles, essentially asking them why they weren't at the big Nissan Event.

It was a huge risk. And easily could have resulted in many instant severance checks.

But, in addition to being intimidating, it was different and fresh.
And with Tony and Jeff's guidance, it was funny.

I miss those days of winging and winning. Last I heard, Jeff and his wife were riding horses in Sante Fe and Tony, the tireless writer, is still churning it out for an agency in the Valley.

I'm not sure they were ever given the credit they were due. And who at Chiat/Day ever is? But Tony and Jeff mentored so many young professionals. And did more for that agency than anyone will ever know.

Not just by producing a wealth of great ads, but by producing a generation of great ad people.


I'm not a trucker hat kind of guy.

I'll wear a baseball cap on occasion, mostly to shield my bald head from the sun, but you'll never see me sporting one of these douchebag, Ashton Kutsher caps.

Especially not the one pictured above.

I know this borders on heresy, particularly since the marketing of brands has put a roof over my head, clothes on my children's back, food on the dinner table and has even given me the opportunity to fly 4,000 miles where I could sit on a Tulum beach and stare at reddish-brown seaweed.

But I don't love brands.

And chunks of past-eaten burritos always come bubbling up when I hear fellow colleagues blather on about how they do.

I wonder if these same brandaphiles also agree with the Supreme Court that corporations are people too.

Maybe it's because I never dreamed of a career in advertising. I sort of fell into it. And discovered it was a great way to make a living while exercising my desire to write. A great lucrative way, that has sustained me well into my mid 40's.

Granted, there are brands that I have liked considerably more than others. Mostly because they were willing to go out on a limb with me and my partners and let us swing for the fences. Those include ABC, Castlemaine XXXX, Bizrate, homestore, Earthlink, Acura, and Baikalskaya Vodka.

But as Sal Tessio tells Michael Corleone before he is taken away to be shot for his betrayal…

"It's was always business, nothing personal."

Thankfully, I am not, and never was, one of those Creative Directors sought out by the press for  interviews. So I never had to drop to my knees and flap my lips about loving a brand, or their DNA, or their undeniable authenticity, or their invaluable contribution to mankind.

If on the other hand, some probing reporter were to ask me if there were any brands I hate, I'd be more than willing to oblige, starting with:


Time Warner Cable

Comcast

American Airlines (or any other airline)

Dell Computers

Pabst Blue Ribbon Beer

Sit N'Sleep

IKEA

Random House Publishing

Outback Steakhouse

Chevy's Mexican Restaurants


Tomorrow, my strength will be tested.

Not from any marathons, or triathlons or gamey puerco tacos purchased from a roadside stand in Akumel, Mexico.

Tomorrow, we will be boarding another plane for the short flight to Denver and a hop, skip and jump over to beautiful Boulder, where we will be dropping our youngest daughter off for college.

You probably don't know this about me, mostly because I have the cynical, acerbic, ill-tempered writer thing down to a science, but I am given to ugly streaks of sentimentality.

It's embarrassing.
It's messy.
And it's unstoppable.

On several occasions, last week my wife walked in my room, interrupted what I thought was going to be a private moment and caught me red-eyed and teary.

"Are you worried about how we're going to pay for all this?"

"Yes. That's what it is."

Last year was difficult, when we dropped daughter #1 at the University of Washington. But in the back of my mind, I knew she would be fine. She is resilient, unflappable and has a seriously good head on her shoulders.

My youngest on the other hand, has a flair for the dramatic and tends to live her life in the emotional extremes. She is either incredibly jubilant and vivacious or she is sad and grumpy, suffering from premature curmudgeonliness.

She's also my baby.


Her new student ID photo doesn't look like this, but she will always look this way to me.

Thankfully, my wife can see past all this tzuris and assures me everything will be alright.

But here's the ultimate irony. For years, through all the screaming, playing, yelling, singing, crying, dancing, fighting, stomping, bickering, and just general mayhem that one would expect with two lively daughters, all I wanted was a little peace and quiet.

And now, with the two of them at college, that same peace and quiet is the thing I dread most.

I need a vacation from my vacation

As you may recall, last week was quite eventful for the Siegels.

We went to Tulum, Mexico, home of ancient Mayan ruins and gerry-rigged ATM machines that do not dispense cash but do swipe all your financial information for use by the Mexican mafia at a later date.

My friend Jeff Gelberg  often says, "the best part about camping is coming home and enjoying the fact that you're no longer camping."

I think a similar corollary exists for Mexico.

"The best part about a week in Mexico, is 51 other weeks of the year not being in Mexico -- where the toilets flush, where US legal tender comes spurting from a machine, and where every ice cube need not pass a 100 point inspection."

This is why I need a vacation to recover from my vacation.

One day, we tried to rent Mopeds in Cozumel.

The learning curve for driving a Moped turned out to be quite steep. As steep as the median embankment that my wife and daughter launched themselves from while accelerating from a stop light.

It all happened in slow motion.

Abby and I were seated on one moped and waiting patiently for Debbie and Rachel to catch up. Instead, they caught air, and like a junior Evil Knievel hopped the curb, left the Earth's bounds of gravity for a split second, before smashing into an apathetic palm tree.

The whole sordid affair included lost tempers (though I remained surprisingly cool), a lot of tears, and the unlawful exchange of $200 USD from my wallet to the sweaty, greedy palms of the Rental Moped/Policia Cartel.

Later that day, we rented a jeep and drove to the southern part of Cozumel, where we found turquoise waters, white powder beaches and buckets of ice cold cervecas. It was there, after some deep breathing exercises, that we laughed.

Recounting how I had just been clipped for two C-notes, I remarked…

"Well I guess we can scratch that off the Siegel Bucket List."

That's when my oldest daughter chimed in.

"Dad, that's not how it works. A Bucket List is a bunch of cool things you want to do, not a bunch of bad things that happen to you."

Crazy kids and their unfiltered optimism.

Not in this lifetime.


Last report from Tulum.

Well Mexico, despite the rabid dogs, the errant burning trash heaps and the unfinished structures, I appreciate the attempt at Eco-Tourism. I really do. But unless you put a Diaper Genie in the bathroom, my used TP is going down the toilet.

You rip me off for a scratched moped and I raise you a clogged sewer line.

Este es una cosa se llama, Karma.

Hasta luego.

Tonight a Mexican policeman and his family will be dining on lobster tails (langostinos), Premium Modelo Beer and tortas chocolates.

Compliments of the Siegel family.

Because really, what would a trip to our neighbor to the south be without getting fleeced for mucho American dinero?

The story...

We rented a car and drove north to Playa Del Carmen. From there we purchased tickets on the ferry to Cozumel. Before doing so, we were cornered by the parking lot attendant who promised to get us a good deal on two island rentals scooters.

It took us a half an hour to find the scooter shop, but once we there, Jaime, our muy friendly rental agent set us up with two of his finest.

Sadly however, my wife did not take to the scooter as one might take to a bicycle.

A block and half away from the shop and stopped at a red light, she went full throttle, jumped the median on Avenida Real and slammed into a tree. All under the watchful and laughing eyes of Cozumel's men in blue.

No one was hurt, but the beat up scooter suffered fatal cosmetic damages -- a few scratches, as if anyone in Mexico would notice.

After much discussion, and me repeatedly asking "Donde esta la biblioteca?" , we managed to extract ourselves from the ugly situation without Debbie spending a night in the clink with several Cozumel prostitutes.

Never underestimate the power of the American dollar.

Suffice to say, it has been a very long, long day.

And the only way to end this story on a good note is for me to retire to the bar for some Mezcal.

Hasta luego, mis amigos.
rented Chrysler Town and Country: the water bottles, sunscreen, insect repellant, diarrhea medicine and more water bottles.

And we set out on the hour drive from the pristine, seaweed-infested beaches of Tulum, inland towards the jungle, and the ancient homeland of the Mayans and their majestic stone pyramids.

We tried to get our two teenage daughters excited about the prospect of seeing feral pigs, howler monkeys and live iguanas. Not to mention the experience of stepping in the same footprints as the Mayan kings who for centuries ruled the Yucatan peninsula.

But along the way, their eyes were caught by roadside stands displaying colorful flapping sarapes and huge dream catchers, so naturally we had to pull the car over and view the trinkets.

And that's when we spotted a whole table of foot long ceramic...skin flutes.

There was much giggling.

Naturally.

At PS 92 in Queens, NY, I, along with the entire third grade was taught to play the Recorder Flute. I believe it was part of the mandatory New York State curriculum, when music and art mattered.

We rehearsed and practiced that damn Recorder, I don't think it ever left my system. The same way I can still pick a book of Hebrew prayers and start reading the divine gibberish.

I thought about picking up one of the "flutes" and knocking out a few chords of Red River Valley.

But then I saw my daughters had their iPhones ready to go. And I didn't want to end up the next Instagram sensation.

Instead, I sprang for few dreamcatchers.

We have travelled more than 3800 miles, including 5 hours on a brand spanking new 737-900, with the electrical outlets embedded in the seats, another 1 hour on the customs line which stretched from Cancun to Isla Mujeres, and another 1 and half hour shuttle ride with young Alberto, who spoke no English but still understood that I needed to stop at a store to purchase a 6 pack of Corona, thank you Alberto.

All to arrive at our eco-friendly cabana hotel, aptly named The Beach.

Sadly however, The Beach offers no beach.

In fact, none of the hotels along the Mexican Riviera offer any beach. Because the good Lord, in all his wisdom, or his spite for my militant secularism, has blanketed the entire coast with fuckin' seaweed.

It's as far as the eye can see. If it had legs and a spiteful mind, I'm sure it would be creeping up the beach and helping itself to my huevos rancheros.

In the vernacular of the day -- FML.

On the flip side, the hotel is beautiful. The bar is fully stocked and Ernesto, the bartender, seems to be fond of my broken restaurant Spanglish.

"Chupame my verga" is always good for a laugh.

Plus, I have a veritable treasure chest of opiates that will make all that angst, or at least a good portion, go away.

First world problems at best. In the words of John Cleese, "Adapt, adopt and survive."

Also, if any of you are wondering about the wisdom of telling the world I am on vacation and away from my home, keep in mind that my horse-strong brother is housesitting.

And he has legs as thick as 55 gallon drums.
55 gallon drums packed jelly-tight with seaweed.


A darkness has descended upon the Siegel household.

A lingering malaise that has nothing to do with inconsiderate neighbors, the inconsistencies of freelance work or even the increasingly annoying nocturnal trips to the bathroom to empty a non-compliant bladder.

It is August.
The end of the summer is within sight.
And soon, way too soon, the exit of my two daughters who will both be in college.

The Empty Nesting Syndrome is upon us. And with it, the 5 recognizable phases that all 44 year old parents must travel through.

Denial. There's no way they are both leaving the house. It was just yesterday they were throwing water balloons in the house, leaving dirty dishes on the table and spilling black nail polish all over the imported green slate tiles in the master bathroom.

Melancholy. The other day my daughter grabbed a peach out of the refrigerator while I was filling up on coffee. The sight of her taking one bite, claiming it was mealy and then throwing the perfectly good fruit in the trash, brought back so many memories. I hugged her and got a little weepy. Right after I yelled at her and reminded her, "expensive fruit doesn't grow on trees."

Clingyness. I've turned into a cliche Harry Chapin record. The girls were watching the Bachelorette on TV the other day. For no other reason than I wanted to hang out with them, I parked myself on the couch. We spent a good 4 minutes together. I can't stomach that shit.

Acceptance. Reality can be a tough mother@*%$er. Perhaps that's why I chose a career in advertising, where nothing is real. Strategy isn't real. Deadlines aren't real. Signed estimates aren't real. It's all make believe, like the Big Data coming from the digital world. Life at home is the exact opposite. It's really real. I know the girls will be gone because their rooms will be clean and the house will be quiet. I just have to deal with it.

Furniture Shopping. We stopped bringing home crap from IKEA a long time ago. Just as I was getting the hang of those twisty inset bolts and cheap wooden dowels. But we never graduated to the good stuff. We frequented Ethan Allen or the up-and-coming shops at the old Helms Bakery Furniture Center. But now it's just Deb and I, with no careless kids to trash our investment. Now, after all these years, we can get away from the distressed wood and shabby chic and step into the highly-polished, refined world of burled wood.

"Show me something in mahogany, my good man."

I still have two weeks before the teary drop offs, so we are off to the Mexican Riviera to see ancient Mayan ruins, drink tequila and spend quality time in cheaply made beach hammocks.

I'll be live blogging from there next week.

Or, I won't be.

Being restful, content and relaxed doesn't make for good writing
Wednesday, August 5, 2015
Oh for Christ's sake

It's been awhile since I touched on the topic of religion, but it is a major pet peeve of mine and I need to unload.

Last week, there was a Gay Pride Parade in Tel Aviv. By the way, you wouldn't find another Gay Pride parade in a 2,000 radius as Israel is surrounded on all sides by people still living in the 9th century.

Sadly, however one mentally deranged Orthodox Jew -- a redundant phrase -- took it upon himself to stab 6 of the parade goers, one has since passed away.

"Hey Shlomo Patheticowitz, we don't do that stuff."

Even worse, three days ago Jewish settlers torched a building and an 18 month old Palestinian baby lost his life.

That is some god-damned stupid shit. I like to think you'd have a hard time finding 10 Jews on the planet who sanction this kind of misguided butchery.

I go out of my way to point out Islamic terror, but the truth is I'm more disgusted when the blood is on the hands of fellow tribe members.

On a lighter note, a few weeks ago we got together with my nephew from Boston and my sister-in-law's family, to watch the Angels clobber the Sox at Anaheim stadium. On the inebriated walk to the parking lot we passed a man bearing a huge Trust in Jesus sign, between the two oversized batting helmets at the entrance to the park.

A couple of courageous young men started getting into it with the proselytizer, who countered each of their statements with Scripture.

"Jesus loved gay people."

"Thou shalt not layeth down with another man, blah, blah, blah."

Keep in mind this is in the heart of Orange County, California's own little Bible Belt. Turns out I was not the only one taking note of the "discussion". A wiry drunken man, I'm guessing from Vista Hills, threw himself into the fray and forcefully took up the cause of the God of Love and turn-the-other- cheekness.

"Jesus didn't love gays. He hated you faggots. If I had a stone, I'd bury it in your skull and leave you to die by the pop up tent selling Mike Trout jerseys and bobble heads."

Maybe that 9th Budweiser was not a good idea. Thankfully, the man's cooler-headed family pushed him away from the growing altercation so he could drive them back to their loving home of faith, tolerance and doing unto others.

I don't understand people.

Religious people, even less.

The other day I was reading an article from a physicist who had discovered what he believed was the largest known object in the universe. This Gamma Beta thingamajig was more than 18 billion light years from end to end.

18 billion miles is hard to comprehend.
And I spent two and half years commuting on the 405.

18 billion light years will turn your head to mush.

And yet, you want me to believe that God/Jesus/Allah goes all bonkers when Lance puts his hand on Chad's pee-pee? Or when Mary starts practicing scissor kicks with Betty?

Weeks ago, I put out the call to the many art directors in my life.

I needed a favor, more specifically an idea for a cover for my upcoming release of my next book, Round Seventeen &1/2, The Names Have Been Changed To Protect the Inefficient.

The response was overwhelming.
In an underwhelming kind of way.

Apparently the people I have so generously turned on to freelance gigs and kept gainfully underemployed for the last dozen years are unfamiliar with the concept of reciprocity. Fair enough, names have taken, lists are being compiled and future blogs posts are being planned.

One former partner and friend bucked that trend, Robert Prins.

Two weeks ago he sent me an entire deck full of juicy book cover choices. The one above features a picture of a raccoon humping a beagle. We happened across the grainy photo while working on a recent assignment and couldn't stop laughing.

When we saw the shot, there was projectile snot that reached the ceiling tile.

Robert offered up other choices as well.


This one had a nice simplicity about it. And one of the stories in the book regards shrimp.

But it felt too fancified and frankly promised the reader a literary experience I knew the writing could not deliver.


I liked this one.

Because it features yellow, and for better or worse, my entire ad career seems to be synonymous with one inconsequential Yellow ABC campaign.

Also, I like monkeys.
Except for Ken Ham and the Creationists , who doesn't like monkeys?

And finally there was this.


The carefully sculpted geometric patterns of the sidewalk casually desecrated and overtaken by the random meandering of an unleashed dog's piss. If that's not a perfect metaphor for advertising in the year 2015, I don't know what is.

In the end, I chose None of the Above.

You'll have to wait to see the winning design and the genuinely-sophopmoric writing when the book finally hits the shelves in late September.

Then, when Random House calls and offers to pick up the second printing and drops a fat advance check on my ass, I'll be prancing off to deposit the money in the bank.

Note to all you art directors who couldn't be bothered: And so will Robert.



I'm standing in the cabana at the LA Fitness club at Jefferson and Lincoln.

It's a beautiful sunny day.

I've had a productive morning at home and an assignment that will earn me a few more day rates.

I'm also cursing to myself about the crowd in the pool, including my nemesis, some old crazy cat lady that likes to take up an entire lane with her useless snorkeling and then hog the shower so she can condition her ugly grey hair with 13 different kinds of oils and lotions.

After she "exercises" she goes back to her car and chain smokes an entire box of Marlboro's. Marlboro Light, because you know she's health conscious.

Anyway, as I'm standing in the cabana, buck naked, and about to pull up my swim trunks I notice the instructions for the proper Care and Maintenance of my Quiksilver trunks. That's when I break out my iPhone and without a tripod (insert joke here) I snap the photo above.

I don't know if you can tell, but that's SEVEN tiny pages detailing the materials used to fabricate the bathing suit as well as a United Nations treatise outlining the correct way to wash said garment, that, it should be pointed out, was made for the express purpose of going in and out of a pool of highly-chlorinated water and old lady urine.

I'm not sure what type of dim wit needs these Ulysses-ian cleaning instructions, but rest assured if he speaks English, German, Spanish, French, Mandarin Chinese or Tagolog, the good folks at Quiksilver have got him covered.

Also, I checked just for good measure, and on the back of the last tag I found the blueprint for a modern nuclear bomb.

It was written in Farsi.

Came across something interesting while walking the Baldwin Hills Stairs the other day.

Truth is, I find something interesting every time I decide to make the 2 hour journey, from my house to the trailhead, up and down the stairs 4 times and the 1.7 mile return trip, my fingers swollen to sausage-like proportions from the exertion.

As I was descending the hill, making my way down the winding switchback where I often find lightening-fast lizards and startling brown and yellow ringed gopher snakes, I spotted a young Hispanic family coming up the hill.

The young couple, in their late twenties at best, were trailed by a brood of 5 toddlers. Actually, one kid was not walking, he was in a stroller.

Not one of those fancy-schmancy REI-endorsed $400 strollers with the ergonomic seating, the built-in iPod player and the hydraulic shock absorbers for rugged off roading.

No, this was a street model.

Probably picked up at a K-Mart or a flea-market. It had four wheels, three of them wobbly, a torn fabric seat, and beat up plastic handlebars that were machine extruded from a Taiwanese sweatshop in 1992.  It looked out-of-place here on the fashionable Westside of LA, not unlike the parents, who were not wearing $200 hiking shoes, $100 cargo shorts or $50 cool-wicking headbands from the fine folks at Patagonia.

They weren't outfitted for the hike. And neither were the kids, who sported hand me down flip flops, threw dirt and rocks at each other and played without a care in the snake-infested sagebrush.

As our paths criss-crossed, one of the mijas tripped on a jagged rock. She hit the ground hard. And fast. So fast, that her parents, who were a few yards ahead, didn't even see it.

Nor did they have to.

The four year old girl, snapped back up, brushed the dirt from the fresh bloody raspberry, and didn't miss a beat. There was no crying. No whining. No 5 alarm dash to the Cedar Sinai Emergency Room.

I thought about all this as I recently brought my own daughter back to JCA summer camp after her bout with the flu.

I offered to help bring her belongings back to the cabin but she declined. Perhaps she didn't want to be humiliated by her father. But as I pulled away I looked in the rear view mirror and saw her trudging up the hill with a 25 lbs. duffel bag, a backpack, a 10 lbs. handbag and her oversized pillow.

She's a hearty little camper.
Maybe not as rugged as the little girl with the bloody knee, but still tough.

And toughness is a good thing to have in this world.

A very good thing.

Creative people in ad agencies want something to show for their work. They want to be able to hold it, touch it, see it and show it to other people and say, "Look what I've done."

Or, more accurately, "look what we, with the help of our client partners, a production company, a mixing house and a staff of editors and color-correction button-pushers, have done."

The point is, we want something tangible.
Something that validates our chosen line of pursuit.

Ad agencies on the other hand want, or more accurately, need satisfied clients. They need to keep the lights on, the bills paid and the coffee machines fully stocked. The best way to accomplish that is to fill the roster of happy clients, with more happy clients.  Hopefully, with bigger budgets.

This relentless push for growth often requires time. More time that the regularly allotted 40 hours enjoyed by the average American salary man or woman.

And so, creative people and occasionally planners who might need to redraw some Venn diagrams, are asked (maybe asked is not the right word) to sacrifice their nights and weekends. It's an ugly push-pull situation that makes for a lot of sulky dissatisfaction as well as some excellent colorful reading on Glass Door.

Is there a solution?

I'm just a 44 year old freelance copywriter with a plateful of assignments I'm putting off, but allow me to extemporize a little.

I know margins are low. And after paying out all the Chief Anthropology Officers, Experiential Ninjas and Global World International Pubas who do such heavy lifting for the holding companies, it's harder than ever for an ad agency to turn a profit.

But what about Sweat Equity?

What if for instance, for every stolen weekend, an art director or a copywriter would earn a credit. Partial credits would also be doled out for late nights. Or missed vacation time. At the end of a year, a hardworking ad agency creative could accrue a significant amount of credits.

How would those credits be paid, you might ask?

Good question.

But here's the thing. Ad agencies love to beat their chest about how they are a center for creativity. It's why we hear such bloviated terminology as, "we're not an ad agency, we're an Idea Factory."

Or, "We incubate the imagination."

Or, "We're redefining pop culture with our unique brand of entertainvertising."

Sure, hand me that box of tissues, would you?

In short, there's a lot of lip service about making stuff without ever doing anything to encourage the making of stuff. Nor giving the employees the actual time it takes to make said stuff.

So what if agencies reimbursed those credits with supplies, equipment or access to facilities that would bring the unmanifested passion of creatives to fruition? What if the credits, earned by sacrificing precious time, could be used to make a short film? Or stage an art show? Or defray the cost of self-publishing a book?

What if, and I'm just spitballing here, agencies stole a page from the early playbook of the Vatican and became the curator/sponsor of their own in-house artists? They could actually be the studio they boast so freely about in the agency credentials page. Given enough thought I think you can agree this could  be a win-win situation.

I know there will be some, ok many, who will scoff and write this off as the ramblings of a naive misanthrope who is completely clueless as to the finances and operations of a modern day advertising agency.

However, I am privy to the soaring frustration and disillusionment of the creative community and I see the millions of dollars being thrown at retaining current employees and the recruitment of new ones. Millions of dollars. None of it producing any effective results.

So who's being naive?

Coughing is a lot like farting. I can handle my own, I just don't want to be around when someone else is doing the former or the latter.

Last week, my daughter was home from summer camp, couch-ridden because she wasn't feeling well. The coughing was relentless. I love my daughter and if you spent 5 minutes with her you'd love her too. She's wicked funny, unusually smart and bursting with energy.

But I hate the way she coughs.

She has this odd ptttp--ptttttpppp--ptttp pattern to her cough that is worse than nails being dragged across a chalkboard while the smoke alarm batteries are going off.

Even the obnoxious pit bulls next door made a hasty retreat to somewhere out of earshot.

So I packed up my belongings and made a beeline for Starbucks where I could enjoy the B.O. of strangers and the dulcet tones of shitty corporate approved, focus group tested house music.

No sooner had I settled in with my large black coffee -- I won't use their silly terminology -- and continued the laborious work of tweaking my insignificant collection of short stories for my upcoming book, did I get a text from my daughter Hacky McHackingham.

"Some lady just yakked all over our front yard."

She also texted my wife, who laughed it off and went about the business of selling ad space in America's favorite magazine, Harvard Business Review, sometimes referred to as the print version of a stroke.

I, on the other hand, sprung into action.

I booted up my recently purchased DropCam, which is mounted under the eaves and covers 110 degree angle of my front yard. I backed up the footage and reviewed the tape as if I were an investigator on CSI/Culver City -- The Hurl Detectors.

And sure enough I found the culprit.

You might have seen the video last week, as I immediately posted it on Facebook. But for me, and the for the marketing people at DropCam who were thoroughly amused and want to use it in their next online marketing campaign, it's classic, it's timeless and it merits another viewing.

For maximum pleasure I suggest you turn the volume up on your speakers.



Watching the video brought back memories of being an impressionable young Hebrew School student at the Monsey Jewish Center. My teacher, Mr. Resnikoff was telling us about the rich, humorous literature that sprang forth from the Polish shtettles. In fact, many Yiddish phrases that have entered our modern day lexicon were born there.

For instance:

A Schlemiel is the guy sitting at the counter in a restaurant who, without fail, will always spill his soup.

A Schlemazel is the unfortunate guy sitting next to the schlemiel, who ends up with the spilt soup all over his lap.

And the man who, for no good rhyme or reason, has strangers drive up to his yard and explosively hurl breakfast, and parts of last night's dinner across his lawn, well that my friends would be a Siegel.


I am now sliding into my third voluntary week away from work. I am afforded this because this past year has been unusually busy. Perhaps the busiest in my dozen years as a freelancing mercenary.

I'm seeing a lot of articles lately about ageism, maybe people don't know I'm an over-ripe 44 years of age.

In any case, I'm not complaining.
Ok, I am complaining.

You see over the course of the last 12 months I've written hundreds of scripts, penned another 50 concepts for digital, laid down a bunch of manifestos and even cranked out a few banner ads. That is, I've come up with ideas for all of the above.

None of it got produced.
Not a single one.

This all became painfully apparent when, the other night at an Angels baseball game, my nephew asked me what commercials I had on the air right now. I hemmed and hawed and quickly changed the subject.

"You want another Corona?"

I don't have anything on the air. And haven't for a while. The last time I produced anything President Bush was standing on an aircraft carrier and my shares of MCI Worldcom became toilet paper.

Look, when it comes to ideas, I shit the bed as much as the next guy. Mine are just a little more expensive. Similarly, and not to sound immodest, once in every 50 at bats or so, I can hit one out of the park. In fact, on one particular assignment I'm sure my partner and I had done just that.

The specifics are unimportant. The agency, the client, the creative directors can all rest assured I'm not going to divulge any details.

But I've been around the block. A few times. I've judged shows. Picked up a few awards here and there. I've pitched and won new business. And had the great fortune to work side by side with legends in the business like Lee Clow, Steve Hayden and David Lubars.

I know a good ad when I've seen one. Or written one. This one was good. And could've been great. Not because it was mine, it wasn't. It was a true collaboration where my partner said one thing, I said another, he said something else. I ignored that. Then tweaked the 30th thing he said. And voila, the spot was born.

It was pure.
It was simple.
It was funny.
And it was based on a human truth that everyone will recognize. Or would have.

But now it's dead.

Why? Because in the assemblage of a 279-page deck, it somehow got lost in the shuffle. Passed over for some nonsense with a cool hippety-hoppity soundtrack or a buzz worthy brand engagement unit that was not buzz worthy in the least.

I don't think a client ever saw it.
I don't think the lead Creative Director ever saw it.
In its final indignity, the paper the idea was printed on never even made it to the recycle bin. It got tossed in with the trash and quickly smothered with last night's cold Pad Thai Noodle.

Want to know why 99% of the advertising on TV sucks?
It's because 99% of the great ideas never make it out the door.


You get your stories where they come to you.

Today's story comes from St. Vincent's Hospital, deep in the bowels of Los Angeles, on Alvarado, where Koreatown bumps into Little Bangledesh and nudges up against the rapidly growing downtown district.

Unfortunately, I've spent the better part of last week at this oasis just north of famed Macarthur Park, where Sister Fidelis Klein and the other Daughter's of Charity have been administering to the sick in their Satan-like costumes since 1954.

Seems my brother went to spinning class last week, the first and probably the only time he'll ever do that. 24 hours after the relentless cycling he began suffering from extreme leg cramps.

I would have washed down two Vicodens with three fingers worth of Jack Daniels but my brother and I are cut from different cloth.

At 4 AM on a Sunday morning, unable to sleep, he got in his car and drove to St. Vincent's, Home of the Scarily Winged Nuns. Turns out he over-exerted himself and created muscle debris, which can be very painful and spike levels of CPK in the bloodstream.

Out of extreme precaution, my brother's spontaneous ER visit turned into a 6 day stay at the posh palace by the park, where on a clear day one can see the brown fire-ready brush of the Hollywood Hills.

Of course, this hardly bothered my brother who enjoys any time he's not reconciling bank statements or balancing credits, debits, assets and liabilities. Plus the British Open was on TV. Plus his meals, if you can call it that, were brought to his bed and the dirty dishes whisked away at his command. With a little well placed play acting he could have been put back on a Morphine-drip. I wouldn't have passed on that.

To some, a hospital stay is a welcome relief from the hum drum of everyday life.

I'm not some. While I enjoyed visiting my brother -- who was just released and is fine, thank you -- and spanking his ass at Chess, and the free Purell at every corner, there is very little to be said for being in a hospital.

Fact is, I spent an entire summer at a hospital. Good Samaritan in Suffern, NY. Not as a patient, but as a kitchen pot scrubber making an unheard of $3.62/hour. I was relegated to the kitchen after my second day on the job. Take it from me, the hospital kitchen is not as clean or as sanitary as hospital administrators would have you believe.

I was initially assigned to Tray Pass, but that didn't last long.

I'd stack the plastic covered trays on a huge hand cart and then roll them up to the floors, where I would personally deliver each carefully assigned meal.

Kosher, goes to Mrs. Schwartzbaum.
Low Salt, Mr. Vitali.
And this one, Low Fat, High Protein, that's reserved for Mrs. Wilson.

I knocked on her door. No answer.

I looked for assistance, but no one was around. I heard a low moaning sound but that was hardly unusual in a hospital, particularly on the ICU Ward.

Mrs. Wilson, all of 84 years old, did not respond. Perhaps she couldn't hear me. I proceeded. Foolishly.

I pulled back the privacy curtain and there she was. Standing next to the bed, with her hospital gown by her ankles, squatting over a bedpan stationed on the floor.

She looked up at me and let out a scream that I'm sure could be heard in Pearl River.

I stood there frozen.

The nurse ran in, assessed the situation, got right in my face and yelled, "Get out! GET OUT!!!"

I did.

Gladly.

I hate Hospitals.


Last week I wrote about how the ad industry could solve its growing talent crisis. The post was republished on AgencySpy and Adweak and found its way around the Twittersphere.

I received quite a bit of email from disgruntled advertising creatives (are there any other kind?) who thanked me for saying what so many were thinking.

I suspect there was quite a bit of sharing, which these days simply requires one creative to nudge the other -- sitting two feet away at the IncrediDesk™ -- to slide over in their cheap Herman Niller knock off chair and read it on their screen.

Even as I am writing this post, there are folks chiming in on Facebook and Linkedin.com.

One colleague said I had "created the perfect blueprint for the agency of the future."

Not surprisingly, web traffic shot through the roof. And the post cracked the RoundSeventeen Top Ten. I love when that happens.

Make no mistake, I understand that the machinations of this blog and its incumbent pitiful readership means nothing in this world, or if I can quote my daughter, "literally nothing". And that navel gazing is just a sure sign that I am living in a digital bubble. But it's my bubble. And the things that amuse me are getting tinier and tinier. As I suspect it does for most 44 year olds.

That said, "Top Ten, Woo-hoo!"

So how do I top myself?
 I could write another scathing piece on Account Management.

One time, while flying in a GulfStream 4, Lee Clow confided to me that if it were up to him, he'd fire all the account people at the agency and replace them with Broadcast Producers. They, he explained, knew how to get things done. They magically got music rights, booked unbookable directors and secured A-list celebrities who had sworn never to sully their careers with a foray into advertising.

Well, I could have countered, it's a lot easier when all you have to do is throw money at a problem.

Account people have to deal with clients. More often than not, stupid clients. But I rarely made a habit of standing up for account folks or disagreeing with Lee, so instead glanced out the window of the jet and said…

"Ooo, look there's the Santa Monica Bay."

I could also take on the Planning Department.

But it seems to me, I've exhausted that topic before. On many, many occasions. And really what could I possibly say about Ad Agency Planning that is more visceral and more accurate than this quickly hand-drawn graphic?




Or, I could -- you know just as a change of of pace -- wisely recognize that I've already walked up too close to the precipice and that if I want to continue working as a 44 year freelance copywriter, maybe now is a good time to shut my big fat mouth.

Yeah, that seems like a good idea.


I have body issues.

Have since I was ten, some thirty four years ago.

As a result, I've been pitched in a life long battle. Truth be told I wasn't putting up much a fight in high school and college, but once I stepped foot in California I realized that life was about more than donuts and pizza.

Particularly the crap that passes for pizza in Los Angeles, with its soggy, sweetened crust, making it better suited for mopping up dirty floors than for human consumption.

Then I got bit by the fitness craze. I traded the cinnabuns, eclairs and beer bottles for steel cut oatmeal, eggwhites and barbells.

And light beer.
It wasn't as if I was going to stop drinking beer.

I started running and began a life long pursuit of bone spurs and plantar fascitis. Soon, I was doing 10K's, triathlons and marathons.

In the following two years, I dropped 45 lbs. And prowled Southern California in my tank top and 31 inch waist dungarees. OK, maybe prowled isn't the right word. I still lived with two other slobs in a beach adjacent flophouse, slept on a mattress thrown on the floor and drove a tiny Mazda pick up truck that had all the muscle of a lawnmower.

Nevertheless, through sheer determination and a ruthless exercise regimen that would send most men to an early grave, particularly the high school jocks who never picked me for their precious teams and who peaked in life way too early, I was moving in the right direction.

Or so I thought.

The stress of career, women and those damn beeping alarms from trucks going in reverse, made it impossible to maintain my 172 lbs. benchmark.

Later, in the 90's I recommitted myself and once again shed the weight that has hounded me since childhood. Friends and colleagues would often approach me with backhanded compliments.

"Rich, you're looking skinny. Too skinny."

They didn't want to say it, but the message was loud and clear.

"We think you're funnier when you're fat."

I bring this up because the other day, as I was pulling into the parking lot at the gym, I saw this brute of a man walking to his car.

Muscles? This guy's ears had muscles. He didn't so much walk as he swung one side of his body forward, then, capturing the momentum, followed it with the other side of his hulking mass. I didn't have time to snap a photo but Google Images is always there to the rescue.

He looked something like this.


Maybe I've been going about this the wrong way, I thought? I'll never be an Ecto or a Mesomorph. but, what if instead of losing weight I made a conscious effort to pack it on?

How cool would it be to walk the Earth and have others simply cower in fear at the sight of my 23 inch neck?

Men would ogle my tree trunk calves and curse their puny DNA.

Women would be besides themselves, itching to run their soft hands over my sculpted deltoids. They'd spot the wedding ring bolted to my fourth finger and think, "Damn that Debbie Siegel is a lucky woman."

Colleagues would stare at my veiny arms which would pronounce, in no uncertain terms, "Do not even think about fucking with my copy."

And think of all the money I'd save on dry cleaning. Because you can be sure once I chisel my body to resemble the guy pictured above, I'm going to be strolling into the office without a shirt. And maybe without pants.

This is gonna be good. Please pass the Creatine.

I have far exceeded my word count this week and apologize if I've overstayed my welcome.

To make up for it, today's post will be short.

Weeks ago, my buddies over at Adweak took the opportunity to poke fun at me  and my status as America's second oldest freelance copywriter.

You'd think that would have satiated the cruel, sophomoric bastards, but it didn't.

Because now they're using the bloated caricature of me in many of their juvenile cartoons.

They even gave me a choice of wardrobe selections, which I now present for your amusement .

Laugh it up boys, but remember this is not a sprint, it's a marathon. I'm built for longevity and I have the memory of an elephant, an angry, mustachioed bald elephant.

I'm seeing a lot of chatter lately on the Interwebs from Recruitment people…er, I'm sorry, Talent Acquisitions Officers, regarding the best way for ad agencies to attract and retain top creative talent.

Apparently there's a crisis in adland and many writers and art directors are foregoing a career on the agency side and opting instead for the promising world of start up techs. Or the cash rich giants of Silicon valley and Silicon beach: Facebook, Google and Amazon.

The crisis, I believe, is self-generated.

It doesn't take a rocket scientist or a Leadership Committee or even a prankish stunt at the recent Cannes't Festival to put this puppy to rest.

All it takes is some common sense.
Mmmmm, where are we going to find that?

As a 44-year old freelance copywriter, I feel have the credentials to speak on the matter. After all, I spent the first two years in the business writing recruitment ads.

And the rest of my "career" hop-scotching from agency to agency in search of the ideal environment. Or a better commute. Or just better bagels.

If I were in the business of nabbing the best and the brightest for an agency, here's what I would offer:

An office. You want to be in the business of coming up with ideas for America's Fortune 500 companies? We're going to give you the space to do it. With a window, a door and a desk large enough to accommodate a surreptitious afternoon nap. No AmazingDesks™, no shoulder-to-shoulder picnic tables, no need for Bose Noise Canceling headphones to put over your Beats Noise Canceling headphones. You're welcome.

Nights. They belong to you. We believe that after you've put in a hard day of ideating or content creation or emojifying, your brain needs to shut down. The doors at the agency close at 7. So you get home by 8. To see your kids. Your husband. Your wife. And the rest of your life. Clients need to be told that last minute changes do not get last minute solutions. Thinking requires time. Good night.

Weekends. See above. Saturdays and Sundays also belong to you. However, certain situations may create the need for more of your time. Clients don't expect us to give our time away for free and we don't expect you too either. If we bring you in on the weekend, we will pay you extra for the weekend. Seems fair, right?

A Bitch of a Pitch.  Pitching new business can be exciting, nerve-wracking, exhausting, career-changing and exhausting. It should also be rewarding. If we pitch new business and we win new business, the holding company officers in New York will take home a little taste. We think you should too. It's that simple. Here's your envelope.

The Work. Finally, because we offer people an unprecedented environment for creativity, an environment you won't find anywhere else in the agency world, we expect, no, we demand the kind of work that you won't find anywhere else in the agency world. We believe great work generates more great work. You deliver on your end, we'll deliver on ours.

Produce great work and you get to keep your office, your nights, your weekends and your bonuses.

Don't produce great work and you'll find yourself at another agency, sitting at the long table at 4 AM, eating cold Thai food and wondering how to tell the art director next to you that she has to find a new deodorant.

See how that works?


We've witnessed some remarkable social progress over the past two weeks. And while my opinion on these issues matters little, I've given myself a forum, so I'm going to take the opportunity to weigh in.

In years past, I would have written a letter to the Editor at the Los Angeles Times, but no one reads the newspaper anymore so why bother.

Of course no one reads this blog either, so it's a bit of a wash.

I've heard and seen many of the arguments pro and con on social media regarding the verdicts of the courts, state and Supreme. I will not delve into the logistics or the makings of those decisions as I have the constitutional awareness of an 11th grader.

However, it should be noted that having seen some of those viral man-on-the-street videos of people who couldn't identify the Vice President, or which country we declared our independence from or who fought the Civil War, my high school level acumen, by comparison, makes me a veritable PhD.

"I'll take Three Branches of Government for $1000, Alex."


On Gay Marriage.

The opponents of equality often quote the Bible, the Old Testament, my people's book, as a reason why the state should not sanction gay marriage.

Of course, Leviticus also forbids the mixing of cloths and the eating of shellfish. I'm willing to bet that somewhere in their closet (appropriately) those opponents have some cheap blended suits from Joseph A Banks. And indeed may be enjoying the Jalapeno Shrimp Poppers and Alaskan King Crab Legs at Red Lobster as we speak.

More importantly, Americans are not governed by scriptural laws penned more than 2000 years ago by ignorant goat herders and brickmakers who, while having an unusual recollection of who begat who, knew NOTHING about science, mathematics and the fundamentals of baseball.

You show me a guy who doesn't know the hit-and-run strategy with a runner in scoring position and I'll show you a Grade A Idiot.

Opponents of gay marriage will often say it is not what our forefathers had in mind. Sure, they intended citizens to have the right to own military grade automatic machine guns but didn't intend for us to live under the credo that "all men are created equal"?

I may be failing the teachings of Mr. Kolakowski -- my 11th grade History Instructor -- but it seems to me our forefathers came to this country to build a society where state and church were separate.

In other words, the bible is not the law of the land. Nor is the Koran. Or the Torah. We should all be thankful for that, particularly if you've ever tried to strap on tefillin .

Look, if you want to worship a god who's less concerned about famine, poverty and disease and more concerned about who's touching whose genitals, that's your prerogative. But keep it out of our schools and our governance and don't expect the rest of us to abide by your irrational fairy tales.

I, for one, have tasted thick, center-cut applewood bacon and there's no going back.

On the Confederate Flag.

This one is a no brainer.

And frankly I'm shocked that is has taken this long for the country to do the right thing. Again, I'm somewhat familiar with the birth of this symbol and how it originated as a battle flag for North Virginians. And I've heard all the hoo-haa about the Civil War being about state's rights and the intrusion of the big Federal Government. And how this is all about Heritage Not Hate.

To which I can only reply: Bullshit.

State's rights? Funny, not according to Alexander Stephens, Vice President of the Confederate States, who in his landmark 1861 Cornerstone Speech  stated in the very first paragraph that the slavery was the immediate cause for secession.

And one paragraph later:

Our new government is founded upon exactly the opposite idea; its foundations are laid, its corner- stone rests upon the great truth, that the Negro is not equal to the white man; that slavery -- subordination to the superior race -- is his natural and normal condition.

Now with regards to heritage, what exactly is it that you Southerners seem to be so proud of? The wealth, the infrastructure, the entire society of the South was built on the backs of enslaved, tortured and murdered African Americans….oh, I'm sorry Negroes.

Following World War II, the German citizenry took immediate responsibility for the genocide they inflicted on the world. They banned Nazi insignia, made reparations and did everything they could to restore their image and distance themselves from the shameful acts of their fathers and mothers.

What they didn't do was slap swastikas on belt buckles, bikinis and beer cozies and revel in the heritage of hate.

Like I said I'm no expert on legislature.
My knowledge of history is sketchy at best.
But it seems to me those are fuzzy rationalizations in a discussion that is truly black and white.

The reason the Confederate flag should come down from all government buildings boils down to one concern: It's the decent thing to do.

Remember decency?

Nuance and client feedback appear to be mutually exclusive in the year 2015.

When I do hear from clients it's rarely:

"Could the joke be a little more pointed?"

or

"It's feels flat, like it needs another twist?

or

"The strategy called for something innovative and different, could this be different in a groundbreaking sort of way?"

It's never like that.

If there is any feedback, and many times there isn't, there's simply the ripping up of one brief in exchange for a hastily-composed other brief, or it goes along the lines of:

"It has to be more urgent. URGENT!!!!!!"

That's advertising today.
Tear jerking spots  and digital toys that sell nothing.
Or hard-hitting, retail, Tier Five ads that have to sell everything. EVERYTHING!!!

It doesn't matter if it's for cars, pizza, beer, or a phone company, the tail that wags the dog is the CTA. The Call To Action.

Clients want it louder. They want it stronger. They want the call to action at the beginning of a spot, in the middle of a spot and at the end of the spot. If it weren't for the pesky product or service they'd have the call to action be the spot.

They must know something I don't.

Because in all my dealings with a salesperson, I've never found myself convinced by someone yelling at me. Or annoying me. Or getting up in my face, so close that I can tell what they had for breakfast. Last week.

It's as if today's advertisers believe they can bully consumers into buying their crap.

And of course no one on the agency side wants to tell them otherwise because frankly, "if your agency won't get on the bullhorn and corral the sheeple into our abattoir, we'll find one, with a lower retainer fee, that will."

I miss the days when advertising was about the art of persuasion. Of pinpointing a unique position in the marketplace. And finding smart, subtle ways to convince consumers that no other brand was worthy of their attention.

We used long copy to cajole people, to inform them, and bring them around to a brand's point of view.

We used TV and radio -- remember radio -- to charm folks. Monday mornings at the office used to include water cooler chat about some funny spot someone had seen over the weekend. When was the last time you heard someone say, "Hey did you see that new Tostitos commercial?"

We used Creativity as a tool. And the agencies that had the better toolboxes were easily distinguishable from the ones that didn't.

That pecking order has all but disappeared. It's not unusual to see Weiden Kennedy pitching the same piece of business as the Zimmerman Agency.

In fact, in the year 2015, I'd give the edge to the latter, because no one does a CTA better than they do. When the FTC relaxes language restrictions on advertising, and I'm convinced they will, the vulgarians in Florida will be the first to drop the F-bomb in an ad.

"Get your fuckin' asses down here, before I come to your fuckin' house and punch your fuckin' lights out."

Client: That's good. Can you add 'today' or 'now' to the copy?

When the children's were younger they used to enjoy marching in Independence's Independence Day Parade. Each year, they'd march with a different theme.

The first year, 2003, they were the Crazy Camping Kids. They wanted their banner to read Krazy Kamping Kids, but thankfully we dissuaded them of that notion.

One year they all brought their Razor Scooters and amazed the crowd with their amazing ability to balance on one leg.

One year they went as synchronized swimmers.

Another they went atop a float that my buddy Paul actually built.

And yet another year, with a little help from me, they marched as diplomatic ambassador's from Independence's Sister City of Kapaa in Hawaii. Of course, they don't actually have a Sister City but that didn't stop the locals from pondering imponderable…

"I didn't know we had a sister city in Kauai."

The kids are too old and consequently too cool for any damn parade nowadays. But that doesn't stop us from venturing into town and watching the Independencinians, who never cease to amaze.

Pictured above you'll find Rufus, probably his name, sitting on a toilet that is mounted to a go cart.

Not sure what this has to do with the colonists and their desire to break away from the motherland, but I'll just go with it.

This sparked an impromptu naming game. If you can top our list, feel free to add your suggestion in the comment section.

There is no prize, but all participants will be placed on the list of people I will never subject to any future public humiliation on this blog.


Commode on The Road


The PoopMobile


Briggs, Stratton & Gump


The Fast and the Curious


ThunderTurd


Peed Racer


Doo Buggy


Pre-Digested Meals on Wheels

A One Hit Wonder?

That was the discussion around the campfire last week, among many others, fueled by rum and cola and more rum.

"What ever happened to Rabbi Jose? Who is quoted only once in the Passover Hagaddah and never mentioned again."

If we can all turn to page 20 of our Haggadahs, I will quote the good rabbi. Here's some visual reference for those of you not in possession of the book read every year to celebrate the exodus of my people.


Jose, the Galilean and clearly a fancier of magic tricks, has much to say regarding the plagues that struck Egypt.

Of course, this struck us as very weird. You must be thinking, as we did, that a knowledgable man worthy of getting in the Haggadah and having his wisdom quoted for more than 3,000 years over a table of dried-out brisket, brown apples and some fakakta bitter herb concoction, had more sagacity to impart upon his followers.

Naturally, you'd be right.

I have some time before my next gig starts and so I've done a little digging. Not because I owe you, the readers of Round Seventeen that much. It's more about me procrastinating and not putting all the camping gear back in the garage.

Here's what I uncovered:


"It is prohibited to mix milk with meat. It is also unwise to eat more than 3 consecutive meals with your in-laws." -- Rabbi Jose, Kislev 8, 675 BC


"If a man offers you three goats for your daughter, check for fleas and ask for a fourth." -- Rabbi Jose, Tishrei 19, 673 BC


"If a woman layeth down with another women, it is suggested they do so in a tent with many viewing portals." -- Rabbi Jose, Elul 23, 681 BC


"There's a strange purple-colored bush around the corner from Feinberg's hut. Touch it and you'll be chafing for weeks." -- Rabbi Jose, Kislev 15, 671 BC


"If a man is using a public toilet for more than 4 minutes it is best to find yourself a different public toilet." -- Rabbi Jose, Tammuz 3, 692 BC


One doesn't spend 6 weeks, I mean 6 days, holed up in the woods along the Onion Valley Creek and not return home with some good stories to tell.

I mean good stories, not stupid anecdotes about cheap bald eagle shaped wine decanters (see yesterday's post).

Last week, while camping with 3 other families, and despite our combined 8 Coleman coolers stocked with enough food to feed 1000 Namibians, including 3 cases of assorted beer, all manner of tortilla chip, fresh caught trout, flank steak, chicken and bourvos -- a one of a kind South African sausage -- we decided to get in the SUV, truck down the mountain and up Route 395 to the Copper Top BBQ in Big Pine.

Opened in 2014, this modest roadside attraction has already been named Yelp's Number One Restaurant in the entire United States.

Our plan was to take a respite from the cooking chores and gather everyone for a great Wednesday night dinner. However, by the time our scouting party, the wives returning from their obligatory visit to Bishop, called back to base camp, to report the Copper Top had sold out all their food by 4:30 PM.

SHIT!

You can imagine our disappointment.

We were already jonesing for that sweet, tangy, fatty BBQ taste. And now it looked like we'd have to fire up the coals and pick through some bony, farm-raised trout, thrown in the creek by the California Wildlife people to give people the impression they are natural born anglers.

Not to be skunked, my buddy Paul and I fought off our hangovers and got up early the next day so that we could be in line at the Copper Top by 11:30 AM.

As my family can tell you, I am not fond of waiting in line for food. But we were assured by the early birds who had already secured their Tri-Tip sandwiches and whose faces were already glazed with two coats of BBQ sauce that the wait was worth it.

One monstrously huge 11 year old boy, who was pushing 200 lbs. if I've ever seen it, summed it up best…

"Mommy can I have another root beer so I can burp and make room for more food?"

With the bounty safely tucked in the backseat of the MDX, we made the 27 mile back down route 395.

It was nerve-racking. If any of you have ever driven a newborn baby home from the hospital for the very first time, you know from which I speak. Only in this case, Paul and I wanted to pull over to the gravelly shoulder of the road and start sloppily gnawing on the baby.

The smell was tortuous.
I'm saying, in a completely non-hyperbolic way, that if we wanted to extract vital information from ISIS Jihadis, we should put them in a non-ventilated room, hands tied behind their back, with a few racks of Copper Top St. Louis style pork ribs.

I know the brave warriors of Islam don't indulge in pork products, but in this case I'm convinced they'd say,

"Allah be damned, hand me that swiney goodness and pass the wet naps."

The $175 worth of carnivorous delight was gone in minutes. Had peer pressure not prevailed I would have eaten the styrofoam container that still bore the saucy remnants. As my girthy 36 inch waist will attest, I'm no stranger to good BBQ. But I simply do not have the words that can sufficiently describe the 5 Star Copper Top dining experience.

In fact, if I were you, I would call in sick today, hightail it through the Antelope Valley and put the pedal to the metal until you reach Big Pine on Route 395.

You might get a ticket at one of the speed traps in Olancha, Lone Pine or Independence, but the Pulled Pork, the Tri-Tip and the Chili Lime Beans are all worth it.

For years, artists, musicians, and writers fled the confines of the city to escape to the barren, sun-baked scruff of the desert.

In Santa Fe, New Mexico you'll find an entire museum of Georgia O'keeffe works detailing her love affair with the landscape and the architecture of America's great western deserts.

I love the desert too.

Not for its craggy cliffs and soaring mountains.
Not for its abundance of invincible wildlife.
Not even for its wide open freeways that bring delight to itchy motorists with the need for speed.

For me, it's all about the Meth and the people who abuse it -- White Trash.

I know I run the risk of coming off as some snooty, East Coast intellectual elitist, ok, maybe not intellectual. But let me just remind you I have just spent six days sleeping on the ground at the Upper Grays Meadow Campground, stepping in deer scat and showering from a spigot attached to a plasticine bag.

Besides I'm comfortable enough in my West LA, white Collar, privileged skin to admit that I am fascinated by White Trash.

Always have been.
Always will be.

By some good stroke of fortune, my oldest daughter shares my fascination. And loves nothing more than to soak in and study the White Trash way of life, including the homemade tattoos, the jerkwater patriotism, and the nonexistent dental hygiene.

We are both drawn to it, like a moth to a Roman Candle flame.

And so it was no surprise, on our southbound travel through the Owens Valley, she took me up on my offer to plow through Palmdale and make an adventurous stop in Littlerock.

If there was a God, and all the billboards and shabby adobe churches seem to suggest there is, Littlerock would be the Mecca/Jerusalem of souvenirs.

What Detroit is or was to cars, Littlerock is to kitsch. Kites, wind socks, Pez dispensers, nostalgia lunch boxes, Dukes of Hazard Monopoly sets, and enough confederate flag belt buckles to outfit the entire state of South Carolina.

Naturally we stopped, as thousands always do, at the Charlie Brown Farms . Where the tired collector of Chinese-made unicorn figurines or inauthentic Nazi military pins can refresh themselves on homemade fudge or a thick, frosty date shake.

Charlie Brown Farms, for the uninitiated, stocks millions upon millions of tschotschkes. Shelves upon shelves of crap for as far as the eye can see. Or at least until you exit one gift shop and enter one of the NINE adjoining stores that comprise the farm.

I don't want to sound like the proud gloating father, but you have my word on it, that my daughter spotted the funniest piece of all (pictured above.)

Mind you, there was an entire menagerie of reclining creatures ready to get soused, including a bear, a pig, an alligator and a Bernese Mountain Dog. But, and this is where my daughter's Scottish and Jewish heritage came in handy, normally $35.99, this parched symbol of our national culture was marked down 50%!

And lest you think I simply snatched a photo of this one-of-a-kind, machine-crafted family heirloom and left Littlerock empty-handed, I invite you to gaze upon its magnificent beauty as it temporarily enjoys its new home perched in my dining room.


At least until my wife comes home from her business trip.


I love my house.

I know if you were to take a bulldozer to it, it's nothing more than plywood, 2X4's, drywall, electric wiring and a tangled mess of copper plumbing, but it's mine.

Technically, half of it belongs to the bank, but if I didn't have that mortgage I wouldn't have a reason to get up in the morning and start pimping on behalf of America's finest corporations. And if I didn't do that, well, I wouldn't have had the money to buy the half of the house that belongs to me.

Let's just leave it at...I love my house.

The thing I love most about my house is the thing I like the least about working in an office.

Maybe even your office.

You see at my house, I don't work at a long communal mega table.
I have a desk.
With seating for One.
In a proper Herman Miller chair, not some knock-off ergonomick (spelling intentional) chair that will save a few dollars for the holding company shareholders.

At my house I'm not crammed into a corner near the media girls talking loudly about how they scammed the latest sales rep for a humongus lunch at Nobu.

I have an office.
I can close the door.
And if the neighbor's dog starts barking, I can slip on my Bose Noise canceling headphones.
Or crank up some Led Zeppellin, Santana or Pink Floyd.

That's right, I said Pink Floyd. I know that dates me but I don't want to listen to your Mumford and Sons, or Kings of Leon, or any of that bad electronica that somehow passes for music these days.

At my house, I have clocks in every room but they have no bearing on the assignment at hand.

If I have a great idea, or even just a good one, I'll write it down. It can happen at 7 in the morning. Or 11 o'clock at night. I might flesh it out right there on the spot. Or I might flesh it out later. Because if I also feel the need to go for a swim, I'll do that too.

At my house, I have the freedom to come and go as I please. But I also have the maturity to know that with great freedom comes great responsibility. Because if I don't deliver, the phone will stop ringing.

At my house, I am at my happiest.
At my house, I am my most productive.
At my house, I am at my most creative.

Maybe I work harder at home because eventually I'd like to stop writing the mortgage checks and own the half that still belongs to the bank. Or maybe it's because I like to eat my fruit, drink my coffee and do my business, in my bathroom.

If you have a project or an assignment for me, I'm happy to work on it. And even happier to take your money.

But if you want the most bang for your buck, you'll brief me on the phone and tell me to do the work at my house.


As chronicled in many earlier posts, I am easily amused.

I'll laugh at anything.

I've even sat through the Paul Blart movie with my daughters.

Advertising is a different story however. That's when I become a Taste Nazi. Perhaps it's because I've spent considerable time in the trenches. But if I see something crappy on TV or on the web or in a newspaper, I think of the ad agency involved and say to myself…

"You have this big brand and this big opportunity and you waste an at-bat on something like that?"

But let's get back to stools and the inspiration for today's post.

As anyone who writes a blog knows, it's fun to mine the analytics, just to see how many people are actually reading this tripe and where the traffic is coming from.

Just like any small business owner would do with a software program detailing his or her sales volume and sales sources. Only in the case of a blog it's all done without any actual money changing hands.

Last week I noticed that considerable traffic was coming from djstools.com.
Naturally I was curious.
Turns out it's a European distributor of electronica.

Why were Italian musicians looking for the latest offerings in amplifiers being routed to Round Seventeen? As someone in the IT department explained to me, it has something to do with a spambot.

I have no idea what a spambot is, I thought it was a Hawaiian breakfast treat. But I do know where to find the funny in any given situation.

And let's face it, stools and anything stool-related is funny.

So I did what any 12-year old boy would do and found the US based stool store.  Then I called the Madison, Wisconsin establishment at 1-608-271-4088 and spoke with a sales rep.

Me: I was looking at your website.

Salesman: Excellent we have a wide range of products to meet your every need.

Me: How big are your stools?

Salesman: They come in all sizes.

Me: And they have wheels?

Salesman: Some do, yes sir.

Me: That would make it easier to move my stools?

Silence

(me fighting back laughter)

Me: Do your moving stools come in brown?

Click.



I often make fun of ad agency/marketing bullshit.

More specifically, the jargon that is spouted off in meetings in order to produce the veneer of intelligence.

I am not alone in this endeavor.

My buddy Jeff Gelberg writes about on his blog, Rotation and Balance .

My east coast doppleganger, George Tannenbaum waxes eloquently on the matter in his blog, Adaged .

And CEO/Curmudgeon Bob Hoffman is no less perturbed on the topic in his blog, AdContrarian .

In fact, that is where I found the following video gem which I have embedded here because it needs to be seen, and heard, to be believed.





If you have suffered through the entire 4:08 seconds of that interview, I don't know if you can withstand a play by play dissection. Particularly since most of you actually work in an ad agency or on the client side and will be subjected to more of the same in a meeting scheduled for later this afternoon.

So, if I'm not going to break down the enlightening discussion and I'm not offering up any satirical commentary, why you may ask have I brought it to your attention?

To be perfectly honest, I just needed an excuse to play with with my new toy: the Einstein Blackboard Generator .


Next week is no time to be working at an ad agency.
And thankfully, I won't be.

I'll be gleefully employed by a client and working directly for their in-house department.

So what bullet will have I dodged?

Well today, the Adverati, that is the elite royalty of our business who have long ago given up flying in economy class or ridden in anything but a Lincoln Town Car, will be returning home from their debauched soiree in Cannes.

They'll be bringing back more than swollen livers, deviated septums and gut-busting stories about sodden CEO's and how they almost fell off the company yacht as it hit rough waters rounding the Cap d'Antibes.

They'll be coming back, dare I say it, Inspired.

And of course if an agency is going to pink slip underlings or freeze the salary of worker bees to lavish $50,000 on their top-rung creative people,  that agency is going to want a return on that money.

Which can only mean one thing -- Inspirational speeches.

There will be the "We've got work harder" speech.

This despite the 60-hour work weeks, followed by the mandatory/voluntary Saturday and Sunday office appearances. We've got to press our noses so hard to the grindstone that our molars will be rattling down to the root. Because we're in the noblest of battles, advertising….er, excuse me, Advertising.

There will be the "We've got to work smarter" speech.

This despite the contracted timelines, the fluid strategies and the growing bureaucracies found on the client side of the table. We've got think outside the box. And when that's not working we've got to crawl back in to the box and keep thinking. Remember we're the brightest, most creative people on the planet. Now let's break out those emoji's and get to work.

And finally, there will be the "We need to win more awards" speech.

Of all the speeches, this is the most critical. Because as any Francophile can tell you, the only thing more important than going to Cannes, is winning a Lion so you can gloat about it when you go back to Cannes the following year.

Thankfully, I will be spared all the Rose Koolaid, the Ra-Ra-ing and ear-bending. And it's just as well, because I don't have the time for that fire-in-the-belly nonsense.

These banner ads are not going to write themselves.

I have a gift for you.

It's Thursday, the end of the week, and nearly the end of the month. And soon I will be on my way for our yearly camping trip.

I have never looked forward to the trip more than this year.

Which might have a little something to do with how busy I've been lately. Last week I was holed up at the office until 11 at night. And on several occasions, was there past sundown. If you read RoundSeventeen with any regularity you know that's not my preferred way of working.

I like shutting it down. Refreshing the batteries. And starting new early in the morning, often at my house before I go in.

In any case, the woods, the hills, the streams and the lakes are calling my name. So I will keep today's post mercifully short. And to tide you over for next week, I'll revisit and repost some of my favorites posts from the past.

The gift?

During the NBA playoffs, the Fitbit company ran a commercial with what I consider the best music of the year. I did a little digging and found the sound. Hell I bought the album.

Hear, for your listening pleasure is your gift, Sharon Jones and the Dap Kings.

Lately, I've had the joy of working with my old friend Robert Prins.

That is not to say he is old, but that we've known each other for a long time. Oh, who am I kidding, he's old. Just like me. Robert's 44.

Years ago we were temporarily teamed up while laboring at Team One. We were given the opportunity to pitch ideas to Boston Market, a welcome relief from the grind of hawking Lexus automobiles and reading the mind of our client, a Japanese tyrant who was often referred to as Colonel Saito from Bridge Over the River Kwai.

We produced one commercial for Boston Market. And is often the case, the spot never made it to air.

Frustrating, yes. But a blessing in disguise.

Last week, Robert donned some overalls, popped the screened gate and went scrounging around under the crawlspace of his house, where buried deep in the boxes of glory past, he found a DVD of the aforementioned masterpiece.

He managed to upload the 20 year old video and send it via the mysterious ether waves to my home in Culver City, where I am now proud to share it with you.




Everything about the commercial is wrong. Mostly because at the last minute the client sliced the budget by more than 75%.

Our cross country boondoggle BBQ road trip was reduced to a day and a half of filming in a dusty lot in Santa Clarita.

Of course, it wasn't all the clients doing. The acting was broad and over the top. The music was just plain wrong. And to no one's surprise, the writing sucked.

You may be wondering why I take so many opportunities to air out crappy work I've done in the past? In these overly sensitive times we live in, I've simply run out of targets for my scathing ridicule.

I'm the only left that I can safely make fun of.

Frankly, I think I'm getting better at it.

Tears of a Clown

As I have mentioned before, this year has been extremely busy.

Cars, beers, pizza, phone companies, even talking cows, you name it I've worked on it. Not bad for a 44 year old trying to keep pace with today's content creators who are often asked to keep the idea machine cranking on all cylinders, 24/7/365.

But there's a trend afoot. A trend that threatens to knock me off my pedestal and leave me peddling my wares in the world of pharmaceuticals.

Advertisers and agencies have got it in their heads that the best way to persuade consumers is to make them cry. Once they're reaching for the Kleenex tissues, the reasoning goes, they'll soon be reaching for their checkbooks and credit cards. Oh I'm sorry millennial readers, their bit coins.

Maybe you've noticed it.

Touching homages to motherhood, fatherhood, lesbian parenting, interracial parenting, two-dad parenting, physical disability, mental disability, blah, blah, blah.

Someone, impossibly more cynical than myself, put his or her finger on the collective phenomena that is sweeping through the planning offices of agencies across America and coined the phrase--Sadvertising.

Sadvertising, indeed.

Remember how your mom dressed you in the morning?
Remember she gave you baths?
Made you those smiley pancakes?
Found you clothing that didn't itch?
Remember how she held you when your dog died?
And stood up for you when you were being bullied by that Jenkins kid?
Isn't it time you did something for her?

Radial steel belted tires are now just $199. Buy three tires and the fourth tire is free.

Offer not valid in Tennessee, certain restrictions do apply.

Well, as you might imagine, I don't get called in for these kind of assignments. They're not in my wheelhouse. They're not in my zip code. I'm not sure they're even in the same galaxy.

I suppose that's a blessing. The last thing I want to do is spend hours in an edit bay mulling over takes of actors dropping crocodile tears.

"I like the first take. But in the second take there was some lip quiver action. If we could get more heads and tails on that take, we'd be money."

Last Saturday the weekly battle of "where should we go out to dinner?" almost landed us at Chop Daddy's, the new Texas-style BBQ joint in downtown Culver City.

But my wife, hardly a snob, evidenced by 23 years of marriage to yours truly, was put off by the plastic cutlery and the red solo cups.

"That's OK at a picnic or for a hastily thrown together company party intended to boost morale, but not at a restaurant where I'm going to drop a C-note for artisanally-smoked beef brisket."

We crossed the street and landed at Sambar's, a new Indian style gastro-pub located in the space formerly occupied by Ford's Filling Station.

The obligatory 20 minute wait for a table turned into 55 minutes, enough time for me to guzzle down two Djaarling Torpedo's, the Mumbai take on the classic Manhattan.

Sufficiently lubed and hungry, the snooty hostess (why do restaurant hosts/hostesses think they have the most important job in the world?) started leading us towards a very nice table near the open-face kitchen.

As we turned the corner, I looked at the table on my left and saw Bob Iger, his wife and the restaurant chef seated at a nearby table. With not a second thought in the world, I detoured off my path and extended my hand.

"Bob Iger, how are you? Rich Siegel."

You might be thinking, "Holy Shit, you can't just go up to the CEO of the Walt Disney Company, arguably the most powerful man in Hollywood. What kind of hallucinogenic garnish did they put in your drink?"

Well, 18 years ago, I had the pleasure of presenting the Yellow campaign to the top brass at ABC. Mr. Iger was in that meeting. Moreover, as Chairmen of the American Broadcasting Company at the time, he was instrumental in selecting the agency and the campaign, and literally changed the course of my career.

His response to my abrupt interruption was about as graceful and delightful as one could possibly imagine.

"Oh hi Rich. I thought I recognized you. I saw this bald guy with the thick mustache and said that guy looks familiar. Know what's really funny? Remember that song Yellow  that we started using for on-air promos? I was having dinner with Coldplay last week and we were just talking about the ABC campaign."

Mind. Officially. Blown.

We exchanged some more pleasantries and then I told him a little story I often tell.

As the campaign was rolling into Year Two, my partner John Shirley and I were invited to a big celebrity hoo-haa in Pasadena. It was a black tie affair, not my favorite. Very stiff. With a lot of hobnobbing that Hollywood people seem to enjoy.

I like a party where there's excessive alcohol, someone throws a fit and expensive custom glass is shattered. But that's me.

As we nursed our cocktails and stood far away from Drew Carey, Michael J. Fox and that crazy Scientology chick who played Dharma in Dharma and Greg, we were tapped on the shoulder by Bob Iger.

"Rich. John. How are you? Bob Iger. I wanted to thank you guys for all the work you've done for us."

On the corporate ladder, John and I were on the rung just above the guy who makes the Starbucks run at 4 in the afternoon. So to be called out, by name, by the CEO was not too shabby.

Other than to drop names and establish the flimsiest of connection to Hollywood's A-list, is there a point to any of this?

None at all.

But the Chicken Tika Marsala was especially good at Sambar . And I can't say enough great things about those Djaarling Torpedos.

Fuck you I won't do what you tell me

I stopped listening to the Bruce Springsteen channel on my XM radio.

I decided I'd had enough. I heard every damn concert. Listened to every cover version. And got tired of  the story about his father in the kitchen, smoking a cigarette, drinking a beer and complaining about that damn guitar.

I love the Boss as much as any Garden Stater.
Or, in my case as a hometown boy of Suffern, NY, being on the border, a near Garden Stater.

So last week I went hunting and came across a song by Rage Against the Machine, ironically, one of Springsteen's favorite bands. The song, Killing in the Name features what is perhaps the greatest chorus   in the history of rock n' roll:

Fuck you I won't do what you tell me.

Repeated not once, but 16 times.
I probably would have gone for 17, but that's because I'm partial to the number.

The song resonated because I currently find myself raging against the machine.

You see I have a first draft of my book ready and I am currently seeking literary representation. You'd think because I have a book under my belt, a few years in the ad business, a couple of IMDB credits, close to 50 pieces in the Huffington Post and a loyal following of nearly a dozen readers right here at RoundSeventeen, that I'd have no problem finding an agent who could put me in front of a publishing house.

But you'd be wrong.

The publishing game and its promise of hundreds of dollars in profit is a tricky one to navigate.

Potential agents want formalized query letters, a business plan and a complete analysis of the market before they'll even lay eyes on a sample chapter.

And then, after they have agreed to grace you with their esteemed representation they have a whole new set of requests before they will submit the work to a publisher. It could take a year before my book is casually ignored on the dusty liquidation shelf of the local downsized Barnes & Noble.

Oh sure there's the thin veneer of validation, the poorly-attended book signings and the half-hearted promotional materials one can only get from an established book publisher. But I'm 44 years old, have sold ideas to Fortune 100 companies and have built a semi-successful career on the haphazard stitching together of words, cheap sloganeering and this imaginary skill called copywriting.

I don't need their stamp of approval.
Or their notes.
Or their tweaks.
Or their "suggestions".

Thank you, self-publishing services of Amazon.com.

As for the machine,

Fuck you I won't do what you tell me!

Last Friday, my oldest daughter returned home from her freshman year at the University of Washington.

It was not a year without its ups and downs. Roommate issues. Constant need for money. Travel logistics. And more roommate issues.

The good news is she persevered. And the daughter that came home is markedly different than the daughter we dropped off a year ago. More confident, more aware and more mature. Still annoyingly sloppy, but in a more grown up way.

It is, as one professor told us during parent orientation, the transformative power of adversity.

As she settles back in her room and messes up the house, my wife and I are getting ready to leave. It's time for our annual camping trip to Independence, California. Our 12th year in a row. Only this time it's going to be different.

My girls aren't going with us. And because they're not going, neither are the kids with the other families who have made this regular sojourn.

We have officially become Empty Tenters.

Naturally, this has brought about a certain sadness.

We won't be doing the very-intoxicated Snipe Hunt. And coaxing the kids into the thorny bushes to "grab the snipe. I see it, get in there. Fast."

We won't be doing Smores. And sending our kids down to the stream to wipe the melted chocolate and sticky marshmallows from their filthy faces.

We won't be doing the 11 mile hike up to Kearsage Pass. And telling our kids, "just one more switchback, promise."

On the other hand, we will be doing more of what a camping trip is all about.

We'll be napping.
We'll be reading.
We'll be retreating from the grind of everyday life and recharging batteries that are all but completely drained.

Also, we'll be drinking Margaritas from the new hand churning camping blender I just bought.

And if I get time to make it to the dispensary to renew my medical marijuana card, we'll be enjoying some tasty buds under the starlit skies of the Eastern Sierras. And we'll probably get the munchies.

So maybe we will be doing Smores after all.

I'm going to go out on a limb here and suggest that if you are reading this blog, you are probably, like myself, a regular viewer of The Daily Show.

I wasn't on board for the early days of the show, but the broadcast has become a staple of my day, much like 7 cups of coffee, a 3/4 mile swim and the grousing about my neighbor's "god damn pit bulls."

I don't swallow everything Jon Stewart puts out there.

I love how he skewers the media and cherry picks sound bites to point out the biblical hypocrisy of the increasingly extremist right wing nutters. I don't know how any educated person can align themselves with the likes of Palin, Huckabee or Santorum.

On the other hand, I find him ceaselessly naive about the dangers of Islamism, Sharia-creep and the erosion of freedom of speech on American soil.

Similarly, I don't see how any educated person, particularly my friends on the left end of the political spectrum, cannot see the ugly, fascist, oppressive narrative that is reshaping the Middle East, Europe and California as we speak.

Last week a student at Berkeley penned a piece on why she left Islam . The student newspaper would not publish the article for fear that it might provoke violence. If I may paraphrase Groucho Marx:

I wouldn't want to be a member of any club that would have me as a member. Or threaten to kill me for not renewing my membership.

Politics aside, I think we can all agree that Jon Stewart's regular roasting of Arby's is the comedy that reaches across both sides of the aisle. Who doesn't not like these bits?

I like to speculate on the birth of this on-going effort to take down America's Number One Purveyor of Fine Grey Meats.

I'm picturing a group of Daily Show writers holed up in their office for 10 smelly hours of writing, rewriting and addressing network notes. I see one of the horse-tired writers ordering out for food. And I'm imagining bags of sloppy Arby's sandwiches, soggy french fries and wet cole slaw strewn about the writer's table. Then I'm fast forwarding another three hours or so, just as they are about to call a wrap on a long day, and suddenly there's grumbling. The kind of intestinal noise that foreshadows nothing good.

The joking, the bantering, the witty back and forth have all been replaced with the hurling, the porcelain praying and the violent hurling.

The next day, one of the writers calls the manager at the local Arby's, in a futile effort to get a refund.

In a thick accent, the foreign-born manager explains,

"So you all threw up? In my country that's like getting two meals for the price of one."

Others, impossibly more cynical than me, have suggested that the entire thing is nothing more than cleverly placed paid advertising. That the genii at Arby's decided to exploit rather than deny the negative perceptions people have of their brand. That they are doing a complete Ju-Jitsu. And gave the writer's carte blanche and instructed them to "rip us a new one."

The increased sales numbers seem to suggest that this surreptitious plan is working.

If so, we may be moving into what I think could be the golden age of advertising. With companies hiring bitter copywriters to roll up their sleeves, bend at the knees and shit all over their 100% wool, Italian-designed corporate suits.

Are you catching all this Hewlett Packard?
Nordictrac?
Time Warner Cable?

Which one of you forward thinking companies wants a big old Stanley Steamer?


That happened fast.

Seems like it was just yesterday that I was taking my sharp pointy pen to the annual advertising orgy known as the Cannes Festival.

Can an entire year have passed since I sat in my home in Culver City and passed snarky judgment on the fashionistas, hipsters and makers of the world's most treasured advertising, gaudily displayed in the south of France?

How is it possible that the earth made an entire celestial orbit around the sun since we last visited the trinket collectors who have refreshed, changed and pushed the world forward with their monumental achievements in advertising and content creation?

And the panels.

Those precious prescient panels where professional prognosticators predicted the death of television, the birth of robust brand engagement and the re-birth of the banner ad.

If 365 days have come and gone since then, shouldn't we all be knee-deep in conversations with Tostitos, Crest toothpaste and Bounty Paper towels, the quicker picker-upper?

Maybe when you turn 44 years old the clock goes a little faster because it feels like the ink has barely dried on my 2014 shredding of Cannes. Not to mention 2013, 2012 and the scathing thought piece of 2011, wherein I tackled:

Stingy brim fedoras

Capri pants

Rose wine

Company yachts

Elitism

Over-promoted, under-skilled agency brass

The 5,000 mile international boundary for permissible infidelity

The Gutter Bar

V-neck T-shirts

The tone-deaf Facebook postings of rampant agency debauchery while homebound "team members" forfeit their nights and weekends to assemble pdf's of decks that will digitally transverse the ocean only to remain gleefully unzipped.

Even though I relish the opportunity to take thinly-veiled potshots at the industry and the greedy gluttons who have so diligently earned the disdain of their colleagues, it just seems so done.

Doing another blog piece on the excesses of the festival feels tired. And repetitive. And meaningless. And wasteful. And self-important.

Wait a minute.

Could this lazy regurgitation of past work be the perfect metaphor for Cannes and the current state of advertising?

Oh jeez, he's talking about Jesus.


Confession: two weeks ago, I screwed up.

In what I thought would be an amusing bit, I penned my letter of resignation to the Catholic Church. This, following my daughters graduation from a Catholic high school.

The idea of resigning was not a new one. I have many friends, some of whom have graduated from esteemed Notre Dame University, who now refer to themselves as retired or resigned Catholics.

The piece was vintage R17.

I poked fun here.
I went off on little tangents.
And I tried to spread the cheekiness at those who follow the Old Testament as well as the New. My reference to a Beverly Hills proctologist might have gone over the line, particularly for those with tender sensibilities.

But my cardinal sin -- the one I should've known better about -- I mistakenly gave the name of my daughter's school. Thus looping them in to my circle of satire. Moreover, the piece got picked up in the Huffington Post, which only served to heighten my error.

Readers here, that is those familiar with my acerbic tone, and my regular roasting of all three Abrahamic religions, took the post for what it was, a good-natured ribbing at best. Stalwart Catholics reading HuffPo were not so forgiving. The comment section was chock full of rage. And at least one anti-semitic diatribe.

And so my stomach started turning, which is rare as I can pound a plate full of habanero peppers with not so much as a grumble. My worst fear was that somehow the piece would get back to the staff at the school and rub someone the wrong way.

Particularly since the school has done so much for my girls. They provided a small, safe environment with a strong emphasis on academics. They prepped both of them for college. And whether they deserve the credit or not, nurtured them through the troublesome teen years sparing my wife and I the drama that often accompanies this turbulent time.

I really am grateful.
I'm not dropping to my knees anytime soon, but thank God we found this school.

The other reason that caused stirred distress is that I have become the Jewish poster boy for recruitment. A few weeks ago the principal called me up and asked whether I would be willing to speak to a couple thinking about sending their son to the school. I unflinchingly said, "yes."

I would tell these new parents how Catholic school is like a private school education for 1/3 the price.

I would tell them how the school is open to all denominations and will go out of its way to accommodate them.

And I would tell this fellow landsman that following graduation he should think twice about writing any letters of resignation to the Catholic Church.

Lately Facebook has been placing old posts on my newsfeed.

It's some nostalgic marketing ploy to remind you how important they are in your lives.

They're also hawking a service that will allow you to publish all your old FaceBook posts in some fetishized narcissistic hardcover book. Apologies to anyone who has shelled out the $495 bucks.

In any case, I got a reminder of something I had posted three years ago.

To mark D-Day and the Allies landing on the beaches of Normandy. It was my symbolic cross channel swim to raise money for the Wounded Warriors Project.

I swam 21 miles in 7 days.
Together, we donated $4000 for the noblest of causes.

Another D-Day has just passed and I feel bad that I haven't continued the long fundraising swims. Work and shipping two girls off to college has been a full time occupation.

But I like to think life is more than about posting funny Kim Jung Un pictures, pimping cars and slinging funny anecdotes about advertising, parenting and shitty white trash neighbors. So for the upcoming Veterans Day in November, I will swim back the other way.

And to raise the stakes, I will attempt to amass the 21 miles in 5 days instead of 7.

This will be difficult for several reasons, the least of which being this aging 44 year old body. But also because my swimming situation has changed.

I was using the beautiful pool at my brother's condo complex in Playa Vista. I often had the entire place to myself and the water was the perfect 78 degrees and crystal clear.

Now I am across the street at a dump known by many locals as LA Fitness.The water is too warm at 81 degrees. It's dirty, because the pool guy is also one of the junior salesman. He dumps some chlorine in the water when he is not picking the pockets of unsuspecting customers.

Moreover, the pool is crowded. Disgusting men with hairy backs. Old women with their space-hogging Aquasize routines. And non-swimmers who have mistaken the gym pool for the wading lagoon at Caesar's Palace in Las Vegas.

Then there's hygiene. I don't know what these people are bathing with but it's not Ivory, or Zest, or Irish Spring. It's more like a soap fashioned from potpourri, Pakistani incense candles and spoiled cilantro.

But the swim, and the money we will raise, will be worth it.

Three years ago, the Wounded Warrior people sent me a fleece blanket for the generous donation. This year, I've got my eye on the windbreaker.

Stay tuned for details.


That snuck up on me.

Had it not been for linkedin.com and their silly notifications, I might have missed an important milestone and easy blog topic. Turns out I've given eleven good years of service to Rich Siegel Worldwide.

Ironically, the reason I might have missed this anniversary is because this year, 2015, has been my busiest year to date. Since January 1st, I've worked non-stop including nights and time-and-a-half weekends. If my phone still had a hook it'd be ringing off it even as we speak.

To what do I attribute this unusual demand, you might ask.

Is it the growing economy?

Is it the ceaseless self-promotion?

Is it my marginal ability to put one word in front of another?

It's none of the above.

It has very little to do with what I am doing and is more about what the industry is not doing.

It's not breeding writers.

In order to maximize profits, bill hours and pass the profits on to C-Suiters holed up in their NY town homes, holding companies are grabbing any warm body with a college degree and a medicine cabinet full of beard care products. Before they can get out of their rented caps and gowns, these wunderkind are enrolled in some fakakta, cleverly-named copywriting internship program:


Fresh Blood

Creative Rebels

Game Changers

WordSmithsters

Digital Warriors


Their freshly-printed business cards say they're copywriters. Their sloppy first drafts indicate otherwise.

Look, my worked sucked when I first started out in the business. But I was writing Help Wanted ads for hospitals, banks and bomb-makers. I wrote hunting ads for single-gauge shotguns and doe urine (apparently very effective at attracting bucks).

I wrote headlines for small savings and loans, with headlines like:

Our interest rates should interest you.

It was garbage time. And with any luck, my boss and I were the only ones to see it. But it was also good practice. And believe me I needed plenty of practice. I didn't touch my first national print ad until I had 5 years experience notched on my belt. And another two years, before anyone let me near a TV script.

Here's a newsflash youngsters, a script for a thirty second television commercial is like a resume. It should all fit on one page. Not three.

Make no mistake, I'm not complaining.

The more agencies hire kids that can't write, the greater the need for people who can.

It just proves the old adage that it takes 10,000 hours before you can master something. Not a T-shirt and a flat-brim trucker hat that says "I'm a Young Pirate."

Last month, blog traffic soared over 12,000 hits. Surpassing the previous record by a good 13.8%.

It wasn't because the writing was any funnier.
Or even funny.

It wasn't because I trotted out pictures of women with ample cleavage.
A trick I've used in the past.

And it certainly wasn't because I charted new ground.
I've been mining the same tired quarries for 6 years now.

It was because, hear me say it, Social Media.

You see my buddies at ADWEAK began linking posts in this blog in their daily twitter feed . Sending their substantially larger audience in the direction of Culver City, the pitbull-surrounded headquarters of RoundSeventeen, Inc.

They came in droves.

Favoriting and retweeting posts to other ad industry folks looking for a reason not to come up with ideas for a Year End Clearance Sale or a Two-For-One Taco Fiesta or a new anti-depressant from Pfizer, Shoveitall.

In appreciation, I wrote a post about ADWEAK and their expanding staff.

These anonymous folks are colleagues I've known for a long time. As evidenced by their twitter feed, they can out-think, out-write and out-art-direct 98% of anybody with a seat at the long table or the SuperDesk™.

They're also fellow freelancers who can take food off my family's diner table so I don't want to pimp them too much.

Besides, mutual admiration among ad people has a very short shelf life. Moreover, it's not a natural state of being and can often upset our collective homeostasis. More often than not, mutual admiration quickly degenerates into jabbing, ball-busting and thinly-veiled potshots.

Last week, for instance, in their newly formed Animation division, the has-been hacks at ADWEAK rolled out this little gem.





The bushy mustache, the conspicuous eyebrows, the absent hairline and the massive biceps, leave no doubt as to the identity of this "veteran" copywriter. Though I'm not fond of the Lumbersexual look and tend to shy away from plaid. But it's all good, because my skin is as thick as my inaccurately-drawn waistline.

Nevertheless, a clear shot has been fired across the bow.

So know this ADWEAK, it is on.

When you work in advertising you end up shooting the shit with your partner.

Discussions that start out on car shopping, can quickly devolve into football. Football chats can spin out of control, until the topic is ISIS, or barking dogs, or good falafel, or even condom machines.

Naturally, a topic like condom machines led to a Google search and an exhaustive examination of their colorful titilating decals.


If you've travelled cross country, or even been to the old biker's bar on Sepulveda Blvd. aptly named The Meat Market, you know there are thousand upon thousands of kitschy variations on the Jimmy Hat --all designed to lure the attention of some misguided drunk with last minute plans to seal the deal.

They're beautiful and have their own classic aesthetic. Is there a coffee table book waiting to happen here?

You bet.

Will I be the one to traverse the country, walking into men's rooms with a high priced camera in one hand and a roll of quarters in the other?

Probably not.

The mission does sound adventurous though. You ladies might not know this, but in addition to the brightly decorated condom machines, the walls and toilet stalls of the Men's Room, particularly those in bars and gas stations, are festooned with homegrown wit and knowledge, the likes of which cannot be found in libraries or the halls of academia.

And sometimes the two converge in a memorable way that I will take to my grave.

Years ago, I came across a headline that to this day sets the bar and served as a North Star for my entire copywriting career. Scratched onto the facia of a 75 year old condom machine and winner of the best Graffiti Ever Found Award:

Don't chew this gum, it's awful.


I finally figured it out.

It took me long enough. Perhaps too long.

Others, smarter than me, got it much earlier in their careers. They worked it. Exploited it. And regurgitated it enough until the process was as natural as a cow chewing its cud 7 times over. And these smarter, now wealthier, folks never looked back.

Spit it out already, Siegel, or I'll turn my attention to my AgencySpy, where the design sucks but the comments are still pithy, snarky and to the point.

Ok, here it is, clients say they want different. They say they want disruptive. They say they want game-changing. And so we chase our tails, at least I have for far too long, in search of different, disruptive and game-changing.

But that's not what they want at all.

They want safe, copy-tested, Twitter-proof ideas that are slickly packaged with the thin veneer of different-ness. The slightest smidgen of unfamiliarity. As Jon Stewart might say, while gesturing like French chef, just a soupçon of newness.

But never enough, and this is the key, to raise the eyebrow of the public, or worse the CEO, which could trigger attention and the call to the C-Suite headhunter.

   "I know she's only been here 6 months, but we need a new CMO."

   The problem is, in the era of mass communication, we've been fed such a steady diet of "new and improved" it all feels old and tired. As a result we get food porn, beer commercials that are interchangeable with soda commercials, and limited time Sales Events that run 24/7/365.

   Same.
Same.
Same.

   Back in 1998, Bill Clinton famously answered a reporters question with…

   "That depends on what your definition of is, is."

  Having had this little epiphany, I now have a better idea of what different is.


When I hear people saying, "It's a sign from above" or "The Lord is speaking to me", my initial reaction is typically, "that cheeseburger looks good" or "did you see the Golden State Warrior game?"

I just can't listen to that stuff.

The universe is so massive in its unknowable scale it seems so egotistical to believe it has gone out of its way to tap you on the shoulder. Frankly, I'd prefer God feed hungry kids in Africa or free women from their patriarchal masters in the Mideast than to be wasting time with cryptic messages.

However, and here is the turn, last Friday I found myself gobsmacked while returning home from my hike up the Baldwin Hills Overlook.

First some context.

In three months, my youngest daughter will be shipping off to Boulder as a freshman at the University of Colorado. A week after that, my oldest daughter will be returning to the University of Washington for her second year.

My wife and I will be Empty Nesters.

Not full fledged empty nesters because the girls will still be coming home for holidays and summers. They'll bring home dirty laundry, clog up the toilets and leave their shit all around the house. I can't wait.

But I'd be lying if I didn't say the prospect of both girls being out of the house is not a source of anxiety.

Of course, I'm proud but can't help drifting into melancholic nostalgia.

When the girls were younger, much younger, they enjoyed Arthur the Rat (pictured above). We had Arthur books, Arthur VHS tapes and even Arthur CD's. My oldest Rachel, would sit for hours on end in the kitchen, glued to a laptop and reciting the alphabet along with Arthur.

By 18 months she was identifying the magnetic letters stuck on our old white refrigerator.

Arthur the Rat means as much to me as it does to the girls.

Well, you can imagine how I felt when, after notching 17,000 steps on my Jawbone and ascending the Baldwin Hills Stairs four times, I came across this by the park pavillion:


A decapitated Arthur the Rat doll with a reindeer headband.

It's as if the Cosmos was telling me, "your children are not children anymore. They're on their own now. Time to move on to the next stage of your life. It's time to let go."

Then again, that cheeseburger does look good.


How do I know an idea is good?

I know it, when someone hates it.

Last week I was driving to the Sport Chalet in Marina del Rey. On the way home, on picturesque Alla Drive, there is a Focus Group facility. The same facility I used to attend with great regularity, when I was a staffer. The same facility, where thanks to my big, unfiltered mouth, I cavalierly blew $25,000 worth of BBDO research money.

We were conducting two groups and testing some concepts we were going to pitch in a heavily contested battle for LA Cellular, a large and now defunct telecom.

The first group was a disaster. Of Hindenburgian proportion.

Before the second group commenced, I went to get some much needed coffee. As I was refilling my cup, I turned to the moderator and blurted:

"Send in the next bunch of losers."

Unaware, perhaps, that the next bunch of losers were sitting in the adjacent room. The room with the open door. The room that was filled with people who could hear the cap being torn off the little creamer and poured into my awaiting cup. Yeah, those losers.

The night didn't end well.
Our ideas for the pitch didn't go well.
And my short stint at BBDO grew even shorter.

You might assume from this little anecdote that I have no love for Focus Groups. And I don't. But in hindsight I know the problem isn't about research. It's about how clients interpret research.

Let's say Concept A is shown to a group of folks who have nothing better to do on a Tuesday night than to sit with a bunch of demographically similar people and judge prospective TV commercials which they will dutifully fast forward through on their DVRs. And let's say 90% of the group likes Concept A. And 10% of the group doesn't like it.

Let's also say that these same people, who seem very content with crappy lasagna and free M&M's are shown Concept B.

The response here is more visceral. 60% of the group hates it and would, if they could, throat punch the creators of the Concept B until they begged for mercy. The other 40% of the group love the idea and might even consider tweeting about it.

Well, marketing executives are like Doomsday Preppers. They will do anything to insure their survival.

So when it comes time to decide, they're going with their mortgages, their private school tuitions and their $299 a month lease payments on their new Lexus GS; they're going with Concept A.

After all, 90% of the people polled liked it. You can't argue with that. If my phone were 90% charged or my daughter got a 90% on a history test or my brake pads still had 90%, I'd be thrilled.

But in the arena of mass communication, of breaking through the clutter, of intentionally polarizing people in order to get a reaction or influence behavior, a tepid 90% is 100% wrong.

If it were up to me, and for a thousand good reasons it never is, I'd go with Concept B. Or, to misquote John Lennon, "Hate is all we need."

Never Go Half Ass

In light of mergers, acquisitions and unholy alliances with unholy holding companies, Jay Chiat presciently asked, "How big can we get before we get bad?"

I left Chiat/Day in 2002, when that question was starting to be answered.

Painfully.

I landed a job at Young & Rubicam in Irvine, California. At the time I thought (perhaps snobbishly) I had left the Big Show and was being sent down to the minors. This was not so much a reflection on Y&R as it was on my alma mater. After all, at the time, Chiat/Day was filled with rock stars.

Actually, I never refer to anyone in the business as a rock star, that is way too pretentious (see also: affectation, summer scarves, nose rings, gauged ears, tattooed sleeves, riding boots and handlebar mustaches).

Colleagues of mine who call themselves, or anyone else in the industry, rock stars need to recognize they simply create advertising that people hate less than other advertising.

In any case, I found myself behind the Orange Curtain with a bunch of young creatives, who had talent, but not necessarily the work ethic needed to make a name for themselves. The most difficult part of my job, other than the 110 mile daily commute, was to import some of that famed Chiat/Day culture and kick some ass.

I must have had some success.

Because 10 years later I ran into one of the kids who worked for me.

"Rich, I owe you a debt of gratitude. You once called me lazy. You said I never followed thru, didn't push myself and sleep-walked thru my job. At the time I cursed you under my breath. But years later I started understanding what you were getting at. Then, I started getting it. Then I started winning awards and getting promoted. I just wanted to say thank you."

Holy shit, I thought,  at least I did one thing right. This kid is now a big time Group Creative Director. Maybe if he spots this blatant pandering he'll bring me in for a gig.

All of which is a longwinded way of getting to a pleasant experience that happened not too long ago.

My partner and I were asked to supervise some juniors working on a project. At the very last minute, and because of some fluid logistics, we had to ask a young woman to step in and knock out some headlines and body copy. In the time it takes me to drive to the gym, slip into my Speedo, swim a mile, shower and race back to work, she had risen to the task. And done so with grace.

No drama.
No trauma.
She just knocked that shit out.

I won't embarrass her by sharing her name publicly, but sometime in the future you will know the name. In fact, if her drive and professionalism are any indication, it'll be painted on the door of her own agency.


Each week it would take potshots at the industry and skewer the nonsense that takes place in agencies from Portland, Maine to Portland, Oregon.

It was an instant hit. Mostly because in the days before AgencySpy, it gave voice to the incredible frustration and discontent of those of us toiling for the man.

Naturally, because the picture of the Editor was a burly, hairy man in front of a swimming pool, I fielded a lot of calls assuming I was behind the sedition.

I was not.
And I am not.

The guy in the picture has 100 lbs. on me.
And I've seen better mustaches on women.

However, I am friends with the guys who started ADWEAK and I know this was not an accident. Nevertheless I enjoyed their antics then. And I enjoy them now.

The website hasn't been active for about ten years. Instead, the ADWEAK gents ply their wares on Twitter .

I wouldn't have thought it possible, but the new format has allowed them to be even funnier. Because now they can move at the speed of sound. They can spit out the funny faster than a project manager can arrange a week's worth of creative check-ins.

Last week, my ADWEAK buddies ran a little experiment and wanted to see if adding a link to this blog could produce additional web traffic.

It did. On both ends.

I had a noticeable jump.
And they had measurable increases in engagement, views and click-thrus. Of course we're just a bunch of freelance copywriters and have no idea what to make of the any of that. But visuals of fast-rising unexpected vertical spikes (insert Cialis joke here) make us happy:


All of which brings to a point that Bob Hoffman often makes on his blog, the Adcontrarian    -- and by the way, if you're not currently enjoying Bob's unique brand of curmudgeonly goodness, you ought to be.

The people who are making the most of the new digital platforms, the ones telling stories, making things, and commanding attention in the new emerging arena, are not the ones using artisanal beard wax or sporting man-buns or $1000 stingy-brim fedoras.

We're the people pundits will tell you have lost touch with the business and can't keep up with the social media dominated world.

The ones that need to move on.

You might know us by a different name -- the Dinosaurs.

It's been argued, by people a lot smarter than me (7 billion plus), that everything that happens to us, every little detail, every meal, every shower, every employee review, every passed kidney stone, has been faithfully recorded on the hard drive that is our brain.

All we have to do is figure out how to connect the synapses in the right manner in order to access these long forgotten memories.

I think there's something to this.

Last week, for instance, my partner Robert Prins and I were working on an assignment. Somehow we started talking about riding lawn mowers. And then, somehow again, I began thinking of my newspaper delivery days back in Suffern, NY.

Having a newspaper delivery route is like having a special set of X-ray glasses with which to see the neighborhood in ways few people will ever know.

In bedroom communities, neighbors might have passing conversations with the folks to their immediate left and right. And perhaps, because of the kids playing softball at the nearby school, parents might get together for the occasional BBQ or X-mas party.

But as a teenage newspaper delivery boy I had close, sometimes too intimate, contact with not one, two or even five of the neighborhood families, I had a special peak into the lives of 47 Suffernites.

Suffernians?

Suffragettes?

There were rumored Mafia families on my route.

There was closeted homosexuals on my route.

There was even the family of an ex-NFL football player. They had a pair of boys, 7 and 9 years old, who were to destruction what Islamic terrorists are to intolerance. They had a penchant for fire, sledgehammers and circular saws, and would break shit up just for the sake of breaking shit up.

If YouTube had been around back then, I have no doubt these two would be Internet stars.

And then there was one house occupied by a family, whose name I shall not speak.

The mom and dad were in their 50's and they had a son in his late teens. These were not people who did much socializing. It was rumored that the father collected Nazi memorabilia. The fact that they kept two vicious, and often snarling, German Shepherds did little to dissuade me of that belief.

I never relished collection days and the times I would have to interact with these neighborhood fascists. More often than not, I was greeted at the door by their son, who in many ways resembled Private Lawrence from Full Metal Jacket. A big hulking man, who was never quite all there.

Mind you, this was long before the hipster era, but at 19 tender years of age, he was fond of wearing a Sherlock Holmes hat. Also, he smoked a pipe. He also never obtained a driver's license. That however, was never going to stop him.

Because on days when the need for speed kicked in, my Private Lawrence would fire up the Sears 17.5 horsepower riding lawn mower, tool up and down the street at full throttle, and look about as happy as a pipe-smoking, Sherlock Holmes cap-wearing, son of a Naziphile could ever possibly look.

I have no idea where this young man is these days, but I'd like to thank him for that searing memory.

If I ever get another newspaper route, I will gladly offer up the first three weeks for free.

Today I will be conspicuously silent when it comes to office chatter. Because today, everybody is talking about last night's big finale of Mad Men.

It seems like every one of my colleagues is a devotee of the show.

I am not.

In fact, I haven't watched it at all and have no opinion as to the demise or the rise of Don Draper.

I should correct myself, I watched the very first episode. But only because I had to. I was hired to work on promos for the launch of the show, which I was sure wouldn't make it past the first season. In my line of work, I've seen so many pilot episodes of shows that never went anywhere.


Top Plumber -- who will be America's supreme poopie cleaner-upper.

Ventriloquist Island -- 10 puppet masters land on the isle, only one will remain.

Breakfast Nation -- we'll sit down with real Americans, who have real problems, who like real pop tarts.


In any case, I never jumped on the Mad Men train. I have a buddy who worked on the show as an advertising consultant, so I'm not going to trash it, but it seemed all about the clothing, the personal angst and the comical up and down romances.

I have a wife and two daughters, I don't need any more of that.

Besides, I like my shows about advertising the way I like my sushi: raw and adventurous, with the potential for violent hurling.

To me at least, Mad Men had little to do with the realities of the ad world, which as the title of this piece as well as previous posts indicates, has become more and more like the Mafia. A ruthless money-making enterprise designed to line the pockets of greedy white men.

If I'm going to watch a show about the industry I've seen commoditized, digitized and declawed to the point where shitty work is celebrated and jargon-slinging posers are worshipped as prophets, I'll turn to one of the premium pay per view networks like Showtime.

Where the language is unrestricted.
Where death, suffering and the meaningless of life are explored.
And where true insight comes bursting from the television in delightful, and oh-so-true, fits of rage.

Here, for example, is a snippet from last week's Happy-ish, and Rob Reiner discussing an upcoming shoot with the Keebler Elves, the cookie baking Keebler Elves. This sums up the current state of our business in a way 1200+ posts on this blog never could:


Years ago, I did a TV shoot in Coral Cables, Florida. My art director partner wanted a pinkish dusk sky with big bulbous booming clouds in the background. This was before Photoshop or CGI, so the only buttons we could push were the ones on the telephone.

To call the travel agent.

We were there for a week. At one of Miami's swankiest hotels. We ate at Joe's Stone Crab. And after a hectic morning of tech scouting, we often lazed around on a yacht that sailed us by Key Largo.

Those lavish days are long gone.

Now every production (at every ad agency) comes under the scrutiny of hard-nosed cost control consultants who nickel and dime every line item until they've separated the boon from the doogle.


"Oh you want two 10K lighting packages? I think you can do it with one"

"That director would be nice, but this fellow is cheaper. Did you see the campaign he did for Sizzler?"

"We can't afford the Sheraton, unless the agency creatives share rooms. There's a Red Roof Inn just down the road. They have ice machines."

But all this rigorous penny pinching ignores the larger issue at hand.

It's as if the crew of the Titanic called all hands on deck to fix an overflowing toilet while the hull of the ship was being torn apart by a razor-sharp iceberg the size of Delaware.

The best time to save money isn't when a key grip is taking the lens cap off a 35mm camera. The best time to save money is when a planner cracks open a new marker pen to discuss the strategy.

This is the elephantine money pit in the room.

If I've seen it once, I've seen it a thousand times. The lower level marketing team, the ones hoping to become higher level marketing execs, decide the strategy should be one way:

"The car is more innovative…"
"The beer has fewer calories…"
"The flick flacks have better confabulation…"

And then the agency will dutifully chase that direction, pouring thousands of man hours into the effort. Including weekends, late nights and forgotten wedding anniversaries that will send many a teetering couple directly into the greedy hands of a divorce lawyer.

When the decks are printed, tweaked and reprinted, about 100 times, they will be presented to the next level up. Where, higher level marketing executives, also eager to climb the corporate ladder, will exert their power, pee all over the work and declare:

"The car is more fuel efficient…"
"The beer tastes better…"
"The flicks flacks are plated with titanium for better confibulation…"

Sending the ad agency and their marketing partners back to the drawing board to do it all over again.
And again.
And again.

Sure you can eliminate the craft service smoothie drinks or stick your employees at the back of the plane across the aisle from the broken potty that has spitting blue water into the air since takeoff in Detroit.

But the people wasting the most money are not the worker bees. The folks frittering away the greenbacks like some coked-up Pentagon Purchasing agents are the ones at the top of the org. charts. And their indecision, mis-management and myopic fear is costing billions of dollars, not millions.

Of course that's just the wasted money we can easily identify.

What about the incalculable costs generated by the children of overworked and under-reimbursed art directors and copywriters who, in the very near future, will be sitting with high-priced therapists and wondering why their mommies and daddies are not in any of the birthday party pictures.

I wasn't going to post pictures of my daughter and her date from last week's prom, as I like to keep the private part of my life private, but as is often the case, she goaded me into it.

"Put it on the blog, Dad. I'll bet you get 5 readers."

As you might have guessed, this apple didn't fall from the tree. She's sassy, wickedly funny and a cynic through and through. Thankfully she didn't inherit my looks.

It's hard to believe I found myself at the Burton Chase Park in Marina Del Rey shooting pictures of my little girl, who in years past could never spend enough time with me. Now, like Harry Chapin's, The Cat's in the Cradle song, she is rarely in the same room with me.

It's also hard to believe that three weeks from now she'll be graduating from Saint Monica's Catholic High School, where my little Jewish atheist daughter will receive the personal and spiritual blessings of the Monsignor.

"In the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord, Our Savior, Our Father, I bless you and pray that Jesus will continue to bless you. Amen."

Out of respect she will accept his convocation, smile and walk away from the podium without a hint of snickering.

And three months from now, my wife and I will be escorting her to Boulder for her first semester at CU. She will snark her way through the whole process and never let on how nervous she is or how the anxiety has kept her from eating in a week.

But I know as soon as the doors close on our returning flight to Los Angeles and before all the seats and table are in the upright position, my wife will receive a text. Or worse, a phone call, to the effect of…

"Mom, I'm freaking out! What do I do now?"

It's at that time that we will remind Abby to step back and find the levity of the situation. And to call upon her innate sense of humor to muscle through the temporary anxious nature of the moment.

Just as she did on the night of the prom when she insisted that she and her friend pose next the garbage can.

Being inside an ad agency gives me great joy.

On occasion.

For instance, I love going to work at a place of business with people dressed for the business of slacking off. The number of Oxford shirts and well-pressed pants in my closet is dwarfed by the number of T-Shirts, cargo shorts and well-worn flip flops.

I love the freedom of an ad agency.

There isn't a day that goes by when I'm not summoned to a desk or cubicle to see the latest video that's eating up the Internet -- yes, I want to see a snake swallow a porcupine. Hell, I'll wait around to see what happens at the other end.

And of course, I love the free food.

It's literally a cavalcade of bagels, donuts and chocolate chip scones, brought in by fawning reps hoping to secure some business for their photographers, music composers and illustrators.

I like to look at the food but never sample it.

I also like watching the young people scarf it down, oblivious to the fact that their slowing metabolisms will soon change their swipe-ability on Tinder.

But there is nothing that makes me happier than coming up with a solve, particularly a digital solve.

Last week for instance, and without revealing any agency or client details, my partner and I were asked to jump in on a digital assignment. We are both painfully aware that we are considered creative department dinosaurs. And that younger creatives are drooling with anticipation, waiting for the old dudes to lay something on the table that has with something to do with Morse Code or old wooden butter churners.

But that didn't happen.

In less than 36 hours -- the new time allotment given on any ad agency project -- we turned around a number of noteworthy solves. No sooner did they pass from our hands to the Creative Director, who excitedly looped in the Chief Creative Officer, who singled out one of our ideas, and declared the concept, "fucking great."

Not bad for a couple of old farts who can correctly identify Howard Gossage, Bill Bernbach and Jay Chiat.

Time will tell whether the idea moves forward or comes to fruition. To be honest, none of that matters.

To me, the fun part of the business is doing what many people assume I can no longer do. I'm not all up in your face with HTML coding, pushing content up the revenue stream or designing an engagement unit that holistically leverages the core brand essence across various static and mobile consumer touch points.

But if you need an idea, a real idea, and not a PBR-drinking, empty headed poser in a knit cap and Capri pants, you know where to reach me.

The best news last week didn't come from Washington, DC where the unemployment rate has dropped to 5.4%.

It didn't come from Wall Street, where the Dow hit new highs and the NASDAQ soared above 5000 again.

The best news came from Century City, or more accurately, a Public Relations firm in Century City, who have officially heralded us into the age of the "Dad Bod ."

I'm sure you have all heard about this. The Dad Bod is clever spin. Spun to cover up the deteriorating physiques of aging Hollywood heartthrobs, like Leonardo de Caprio (pictured above).

Apparently, and the PR firm didn't provide much in the way of evidence, women are yearning for a pear-shaped man with flabby biceps and one pack abs. A man who feels less at home with kale and protein shakes and more at home at Baskin & Robbins. Or Dave & Busters. Or at Pizza Hut or Taco Bell.

Or even better, at the Pizza Hut/Taco Bell Combination store -- yes, that's a real thing.

In any case, I'm glad this phenomena is finally coming around. But I hope Dad Bod seeking women will be more discerning.

Sure, you could go for one of these Dad Bod Newcomers who isn't quite comfortable in his newly stretched skin or relaxed fit jeans.

Or, you can opt for a man who's been rocking the Dad Bod since the day he was born, 44 years ago.


Mind you, it hasn't been continuous.

There was a short obsessive compulsive period when I was somewhat blubber-free. When the completion of one Olympic-length triathlon rolled right into the immediate preparation for the next. A time when my pantry was stocked with nothing but protein, protein shakes and ill-conceived protein supplements, like Ornithine, Creatine, and Lysine. It was during those misguided years when I flirted with a BMI in the low 20's and barely tipped the scales at 172, wet.

But those days of 31 inch waists and body-clinging ribbed T-shirts are long gone.

I'm not back to full Dad Bod form. Yet. But I am confident if I return to carbohydrates, triple my beer intake, and ease up on the swimming, hiking, elliptical stepping and biking, I can get myself in tip top Dad Bod shape.

But the news for you ladies gets even better. Because after 23 years of marriage, my wife has given me permission to "go off the reservation." I think it might have been an early Father's Day Gift.

"Hey if you can convince one of those young women in their mid twenties at the office or the gym to go for this (pointing at my almost-completed Dad Bod), you have yourself a jolly good time."

My wife might have been speaking in Sarcasm, the native language at the Siegel household.

But if she wasn't, I can only hope this publicly-broadcast open invitation does not crash the Internet.

I don't usually participate in Internet memes'.

Never did the Ice Bucket Challenge, the list of influential books, or the more recent Sibling Day. I certainly don't take part in Facebook's Throwback Thursday, mostly because I have a face for radio.

But today I am indulging.

Out of curiosity I did a Google search on some of the Directors I had worked with in the past. Sadly, I had discovered that one of my favorites, Henry Sandbank, had passed away. Henry was distinctively old school.

He started as a still photographer in the Mad Men days and graduated to film, making some of the more classic spots of the 80's and 90's. We were honored to get him to shoot a demonstration spot for the Nissan Altima.





This was one of my first shoots and because of its destructive nature, one of my favorites. Mind you this was before CGI and many of the special effects we see today.

Henry rigged up a special 25,000 frame per second camera that would capture all the live action on film. And there was plenty of live action. We rented a warehouse out in Riverside and had the client supply us with TEN brand new Nissan Altimas. We hooked the Altimas up to a cable, not unlike the cables used to launch planes off aircraft carriers.

And then we let em fly.

It was an orgy of smashed metal, flying glass and ripped leather. I believe we captured what we needed on film by the fourth wrecked car, but since we had them on set, decided to pummel them all. You know, as a safety.

Sadly the client wouldn't let us show all the glass shards, twisted metal and splintered wood, which made us all wonder why they green lighted the spot in the first place. Nevertheless it came out ok, better than most of what passes for advertising today.

You see, car companies don't make commercials like this anymore.

Clients are happy to shoot a car on a winding road, slap on a popular song, surround it with a cacophony of digital nonsense and call it a day.

You're not missing much, Henry, not much at all.

For the past two weeks I have been working with an old friend and former colleague, Robert Prins.

It's been a joy doing whatever it is we're doing. But it's been even more fun discussing what we did in the past.

For example, years ago while at Team One, Robert and I teamed up for an assignment for our client Boston Market. They were about to introduce their "authentic" BBQ chicken.

We proposed shooting a road trip throughout America, learning all we could about great BBQ in places like Kansas City, Memphis and Texas. The client loved the idea, but didn't love the budget.

Instead of a cross country bourbon-soaked boondoggle, we ended up in a dirt park in Santa Clarita and faking all the locations. So much for "authentic."

They also had a problem with the copy, which originally read:

"We came up with the recipe for our new BBQ chicken the old fashioned way, we stole it."

The spot turned out to be a piece of shit. Perhaps fittingly.  Let's be honest, if you're going to Boston Market for good BBQ, you have all the culinary discernment of a housefly.

Naturally the discussion turned to our many exploits of the past. Turns out Robert spent a few years at one agency (unnamed) run by an agency President (also unnamed) who personally rejected me for a staff position many years ago.

At first I had trouble recalling the story and then it came flooding back to me. The Creative Director at this unnamed agency wanted to hire me, but couldn't. Why, you may ask. And I'm glad you did. The unnamed agency President, a man who in many ways resembled Montgomery Burns , took issue with my resume.

You see, immediately after college I spent three years floundering as an over-educated line cook/sous chef/kitchen manager at many restaurants in Los Angeles. Mr. Burns saw this as a serious character flaw. And not someone who would fit into his somewhat rigid agency culture.

I cursed that old bastard then.
I'm so very thankful now.

As many 44 year olds will tell you, a career is shaped more by the job rejections than the job acceptances.

Robert has so many stories about this man, who is now deceased. My favorite was the agency wide memo that feels more apropos of something Kim Jung Un  would send. Mind you this was about 25 years ago, but the little dictator issued a dictum stating:

"Long hair on male employees will not be tolerated here at (unnamed agency.)"

Further outlining proper company decor, he added a line that is Hemmingway-esque in its beauty and brevity, and ranks among the favorite string of five words that I've ever seen…

"Sideburns are for Spanish Dancers."

RIP, Mr. Unnamed Agency President. RIP.


There aren't many good things you can say about the 405 Freeway.

Based on purely anecdotal evidence, I would say it is the highway that fuels the most road rage in America.

But it does have one redeeming feature. The Culver Blvd off ramp on the 405 North.

Recently reconfigured from its previous Braddock Drive egress, the ramp now spills out directly onto Culver Blvd. But not before the distracted Candy Crush playing driver is confronted with an oversized  No Right On Red sign.

And not just one, mind you. I believe there are three signs informing drivers, who might be texting or putting on make-up or eating dim sun (with chop sticks), that they must wait for a green light before proceeding on their inattentive way.

Of course, that doesn't stop these multi-tasking imbeciles from rolling the illegal turn, where nine times out of ten they will be greeted by a motorcycle cop, who often lies in wait on the next street.

If I could make it through the Police Academy and find a Kevlar jacket that doesn't make me look fat, ok, fatter, this would be the dream job of a lifetime.

There's so much to love about what this motorcycle cop does, I hardly know where to begin.

As you might have guessed, I have no love for people who can't keep one hand on the steering wheel and two eyes on the road.

Steve Jobs gave the world so much. The iPhone, the craned necks and the subsequent deterioration of environmental awareness, are not among his greatest gifts.

And so, calling these cretins to the carpet, would give me undeniable joy.

Moreover, the offense is so indefensible.

Armed with a small video camera, or for ironic purposes, an iPhone, John Law has concrete evidence of each mindless infraction. In the world of gotcha moments, this would be the creme de la creme.

If I could spend all day reveling in righteous indignation, writing tickets and racking up thousands of dollars of civic revenue to fix potholes, educate children and silence the reverse beeping on delivery trucks, I would be in Seventh Heaven.

Or at least at the corner of Culver Blvd. and Globe Ave.

I have a new TV show.

Maybe you've seen it.

It's called Happy-ish.

It's all about the life of a 44 year old copywriter who has grown bitter and angry with the industry that puts food on his table. And confused about the direction the business is going, particularly with its ungodly fascination with all things Twitterish. He's foul-mouthed. Delusional. And convinced the world is going to hell in a turbo-charged hand basket.

In other words, it's all about my life.

The problem is, I didn't write it. A fellow named Shalom Auslander did.
And it's not about my life, it's about his.

I met Shalom briefly in 1998. He was a copywriter at Chiat/Day in NYC. At the time, upper management was fond of flying my partner and I to the New York office to see if we could help out. I'm here to tell you, copywriters and art directors love it when they send in "help" from other offices.

How do they phrase it in the credentials -- putting global resources at the fingertips of visionary clients.

The irony of course was the NY creative department didn't need, or want, our help. The department  was chock full of talent including Shalom, now an accomplished author, and Toby Barlow, another accomplished author.

None of that stopped my partner and I from coming into town and acting like two untrained Great Danes. With full bladders. And a farm of cubicles to mark.

Fueled by this, and many other small indignities, Shalom went on to write Beware of God, one of my favorite books. And Foreskin's Lament. It was here that I learned of the odd parallel paths we had both taken.

He was raised in Monsey, NY.
I was raised in Suffern, NY, the very next town over.

He grew up as an Orthodox Jew.
I was raised as a reform Jew, but spent a great deal of time in Monsey. In lieu of expensive Hebrew school, my parents shlepped me down Route 306 to an old Hasidic rabbi's house for private and inexpensive lessons.

It was a crash course in phlegm, foul-smelling brisket and useless Talmudic teachings.

He became a copywriter and later, a disgruntled copywriter, with progressively unsatisfying stints at all the major ad agencies.
Ditto.

But this is where our paths diverge.

Shalom leveraged his wit and fondness for biting the hand that fed him for so many years. And now he is the driving force behind a TV show that handsomely pays him hundreds of thousands of dollars to skewer the greedy bastards who have irreversibly commoditized the business and rendered it no more creative than the pedestrian manufacture of industrial flanges.

I write a not-for-profit blog.

And the occasional Year End Sales Event.


I don't normally dedicate posts on RoundSeventeen.

But today is hardly normal and if you will permit me, I will explain why this one goes out to a friend and former colleague Kara O'Neill.

Kara was a producer at Chiat/Day. Recently her husband was diagnosed with cancer and is in a fierce battle while undergoing chemo. I don't do the God or prayer thing, but I do believe in the recuperative powers of laughter.

And so I'm hoping this piece can put a small smile on Kara's face and tell a story that might make her family chuckle.

Years ago, Kara drew the short straw at the agency and was assigned to produce a small campaign for me and my equally-obnoxious partner, John Shirley. We had big egos and an even bigger proclivity to make the life of TV broadcast producer a living hell.

The campaign was a series of cheap animated spots . And after the dutiful triple bidding of animation houses, we found ourselves in Portland working with the Will Vinton Studios, who you might remember from the California Grapes or the more current M&M's.

Animation is a slow, laborious process, so we were in Rip City for quite some time.

Kara, being Kara, scoped out all the best restaurants and attractions, including the notorious Church of Elvis. This was a seedy storefront museum dedicated to Portland's eclectic art community. A nice way of saying it was a warehouse full of crap. And the museum docent/operator was a character keeping with Portland's reputation for weird.

She would gather the bewildered museum goers in a circle and begin her awkward lecture. Then she would purposely provoke the crowd in order to elicit rude, inappropriate responses so that she could ceremoniously and quite theatrically "throw them out."

Well, rude and inappropriate was right in the Siegel/Shirley wheelhouse. And John and I wasted no time dishing it out.

We were escorted off the premises so fast we didn't have time to see the collection of hand embroidered Elvis Dish Towels.

That would have been enough for one night, but fueled with free alcohol, and the promise of even more free alcohol, we decided to take the party over a few blocks into the downtown red light district.

Kara had done her research and knew of a tiny little place called Mary's. It was Portland's oldest, and sleaziest, strip bars.

We, John, myself, Kara and diet-Coke guzzling Mikey Collado, a bright eyed, bushy-headed writer who could write more in a day than a dozen of today's copywriters could produce in a month, saddled into Mary's.

There, we saw strippers. Not the kind popularized on TV or in film. These were working class strippers who couldn't afford silicone. Or professional tattoos. Or even hairspray.

They smoked on stage, if you could call it a stage. When they wanted a certain song they simply shouted their request to the DJ/busboy. And they drank. Not beer. Or Chardonnay. They drank highballs of rot-gut authentic Arkansas whiskey. In glasses that were older than anybody in the bar.

One stripper, and this is the one I can never forget, stood over 6 foot tall. She was tatted on one entire half of her body. And she sported a long biker's keychain. One end of the chain was attached to her earlobe. The other draped beside her long, statuesque body and was attached to her…er, "key."

Holy shit, did we laugh that night.

If I didn't thank Kara then, I'm publicly thanking her now.

Those were good times.
I know her husband will beat this.
And there will be even better times for Kara and her family just around the corner.

Last week, there was a great deal of media buzz about the 100 year old Armenian genocide, where, it is alleged, more than 1.5 million Armenians were slaughtered by Turkey.

To this day, the government and clerics in Istanbul, deny the charges and refuse to take any responsibility for the mass murder.

Yeah, I don't know why anyone would believe that well-armed Muslim militants would willingly rape, butcher and slaughter non-Islamic tribal people who don't subscribe to their fairy tale. That kind of religious-based fanaticism is completely beyond the pale.

Crazy talk, right?

Shamefully, the Israeli government (populated by second generation Holocaust survivors) and our own US government, have been slow to recognize and condemn the Armenian genocide. In diplomatic terms, we don't want to offend our Muslim allies in the region.

I understand that.

But I also wonder when people in the Muslim world are going to start gauging their actions so as not to offend people in the Western World?

In other blood-boiling news, we are now in the punishment stage for Dhjokar Tsarnaev, the jihadist behind the Boston marathon bombing. In all probability he will not receive the death sentence. Nor should he.

For completely ungodly reasons, death in the cause of Islam (shaheed) is a great honor. And he should be denied that honor.

We should also heed the apologists (and there are many) who claim that Tsarneav's actions as well as other terrorists have nothing to do with Islam.

Fine.

Let's buy into that theory. Let's treat the Tsarnaev's of this world as Un-Islamic. That means, no prayer rugs, no Qurans, no accommodations whatsoever to a religion that they, as the clerics and scholars will tell us, have no right to represent.

Accordingly, Tsarnaev and all future jihadists caught by US authorities, will spend the rest of their lives in prison. Where they will be placed on the all-swine diet. That will surely have the desired deterrent effect.

Or as Homer Simpson is fond of saying:

"Mmmm, bacon. Is there anything it can't do?"

What the fuck happened to Bowling?

Last weekend, my wife boarded a plane to Boston for some quality time with her sisters. As you married men will attest, there's nothing like a good mancation.

Falling asleep on the couch, with a blaring TV, a half empty bottle of bourbon and the ugly remains of a Pregnant Burrito™ still on the coffee table. That's living.

I also took the opportunity to get some chow with a buddy of mine, grab my brother and head over to the Westchester Bowling Lanes across the street from LAX. I hadn't been to a bowling alley in years. And after this experience, may not for return for another decade.

For starters it was unrecognizable.

The long artificial fluorescent lights have been dimmed and replaced by swirling lasers and purplish neon.

The J-shaped booths have been replaced by cheap Euro-trash plasticize chairs that were bought from Ikea and bolted into the flooring.

And the scorer's table, once large enough to accommodate the unwieldy scoring sheets, a few pitchers of beer and a couple of overstuffed ash trays are now a tiny table no bigger than a TV tray, barely large enough to fit a Cinnabun.

And then there is the music.
If you want to call it that.

I hate to be oh-so-cliche and step on the Old Man Griping Pedal here, but seriously, what is that crap coming through the speakers?

Glocks and cocks.
Ho's and bitches.
Motherfuckers and dicksuckers.

On what planet, or bowling alley, does the qualify as music? Moreover, on the lane next to us, there were five 12 year old girls with loose hips and the dreaded selfie stick, "dancing" to the constant thumping, while their MILFY mother captured it all video.

"Can you girls keep the gyrations down, I'm trying to pick up a tricky 8-5-10 split."

Naturally, we all lamented the changes and yearned for the good old days of stubby pencils, big black beat-up 16 lbs. balls and Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons. Not unexpectedly, we all bowled miserably, barely cracking into the three digits. The computerized screens wouldn't even let us enhance our score. Or take a Mulligan.

But it wasn't a total loss. I beat my brother at both games.

And the sweet taste of victory that one sibling lords over the other will never change and will always stand the test of time.


Making a television commercial is a tricky proposition.

How, for instance, do you convey the incredible handling and jet-propulsion power of a finely made German sports car?

Or, how do you describe the indescribably salty, tangy, beefy goodness of a restaurant chain's signature Kobe bacon cheeseburger using only the elements of sight and sound?

Years ago, I encountered what is perhaps the greatest of all challenges for a Television commercial -- television.

I was brought in at Chiat/Day to help pitch Pioneer Flatscreen TV's.

Their big selling point? Picture quality. But how, you might ask yourself, do you sell the quality of a new Pioneer TV to people watching TV on their Hitachi's, Panasonic's and old Philco's.

The answer oddly enough, at least for me, was radio.

Not radio specifically but metaphorically, as in theater of the mind. My idea was to craft little paragraphs of copy, not unlike what a screenwriter would present in a screenplay, and have the words read over the air.

The viewer at home would assemble the picture in his or her own imagination and in effect play an integral role in the communication. Not to sound immodest, but not a bad idea. It was different. It was intriguing. And it gave me, the freelance copywriter who had been doing a lot of crappy Year End Sales Events, an opportunity to flex some muscle.

As is often the case, my evaluation of the idea and management's evaluation of the idea were not exactly in synch. Because it was "small", "lacking in scope" and "dry", it got unceremoniously dumped in the huge Siegel Work That Never Made It Out The Door File.

Last week the idea resurfaced. Not for Pioneer TV, they went belly up (you can draw your own conclusions), but for Vizio.

In fact the picture-less commercial for the superior picture Television TV commercial was noted as Creativity's Ad of the Day .

In the past, seeing one of my ideas executed by another team, who will probably get promoted and earn themselves a big raise and buy themselves sportscars that will stave off their midlife crisis for another few years, would have made me steaming mad.

But the truth is, they executed the idea with much more panache than I saw it in my head.

The other truth is, I know the guys behind the work and can honestly they're the good ones. Craftsmen who spend more time working and no time politicking or chest beating or putting up selfies of themselves on Facebook.

Instead of Schadenfreud, I'm now experiencing this uncomfortable feeling of SchadenJoy.

In other words, I'm genuinely happy for them. Which means I've matured quite a bit.

And that's the really scary part.

A I might have mentioned earlier in the week, recently I was cleaning out my files.

More specifically, I was throwing out old crap to make room for new crap.

Part of growing up, I have found, is the self-inflicted accumulation of records: cashed checks, electricity bills, year end portfolio statements (always disappointing) and copies of insurance policies I hope I never have to need.

I don't know how you do it, but I like to purchase these huge blue accordion envelope/briefcases. Inside, there's a compartment for all the vitals. Which makes it incredibly easy for a slob like myself.

Because I dread an audit from the Infernal Revenue Service, I like to keep about 5 years worth of papers I hope no one will ever want to see. To make room for 2014's stash I emptied out the blue briefcase containing the data from 2009.

It all went directly into the shredder because I also dread the notion of someone stealing my identity.

There's a guy named Rich Siegel from Spring Valley, NY who has already tainted my good name. He's a non-apologetic self loathing Jew who blathers on about barbarous, bloodthirsty Palestinian terrorists and their "oh-so-noble" cause. Freedom fighters, he calls them. I prefer the term, murderous sore losers.

In any case, while throwing out the trash from 2009, I came across an entire stash of Rejection letters from literary agents and publishing houses for my 2005 book, Tuesdays With Mantu.

I had been looking for these for years.

You know, because once Random House comes to their senses and puts me on their roster of esteemed writers and doles out hefty advances they will look back at their prior poor decision and hang their heads in shame.

At least that's the way it plays out in my head.

With 95% of my next book written, I'm about to embark on this journey of shame once again.

Before I do, and without letting out too many details of what is coming, I thought I'd share what once was.

Back in 2004, I had written to C. Michael Curtis of the Atlantic Monthly and enclosed a manuscript of my adventures with Nigerian Con Artists. I told Michael how the only way to dissuade one persistent scammer was to enclose a fake obituary and make him believe I had died.

I also told Michael how I was treated poorly by the publisher of Pizza Today, who refused to run my story in their publication.

I guess he was amused because though he passed the work he took the time to pen a most unusual rejection letter, which I was so happy to find.

I don't like sharing lanes at the swimming pool.

I don't like old lady perfume or guys with braided hair, so when someone vacates a lane I will always move to a less crowded one. Last week I found myself in empty Lane 3.

Moving there was a mistake.

As I swung my arm down in a perfectly-sculpted Australian Freestyle stroke, I got stung. I've had bee bites before but this one stopped me dead in the water.

It felt like someone had taken a machete to my middle finger, perhaps the most important of all the fingers.

I flicked off my Speedo Performance XT goggles with the anti-fogging protective seal and scanned my knuckle. I didn't find the stinger but I did find the culprit flailing helplessly in the water. I swatted him off to dry land where he would die a slow and painful bee death.

That night there were no ill effects from the bite. But the next day, my middle finger had doubled in size and turned to an unrecognizable shade of purple.

I'm going all Tarantino on you and sharing.


What you can't tell from the picture is the throbbing pain that went with it. Pain that was not easily soothed by Vicoden. Or two.

Not wanting to go to Century City to visit my personal physician, who I had just seen for my 5 year physical, I unwisely turned to the Playa Advance Urgent Care Center , where I became a new patient of Dr. Urshubeggodavozian, an unusually hairy man with a brusk demeanor and the forearms of a grizzly bear. If you have a minute check out their stellar 1 star reviews.

The "Dr." took three very expensive X-rays of my finger, which in retrospect seems unnecessary. But when your finger feels like it is going to explode like a resigned priest released from a three decade long  vow of celibacy, you just go with it.

Next, the hirsute doctor gave me two very painful shots. An anti-biotic and a cortisteroid. As the medicine started coursing through my body he decided to have one more look at the bite decided he would do a scalpel-aided exploratory to "dig out the stinger."

As the third shot of Lidocaine numbed my finger I began to get an uneasy feeling about the whole procedure and making my first smart decision all morning, walked out.

The good news is the swelling has gone down and the oozing (no pictures, thankfully) has stopped. The part that really stings was the bill from the Playa Urgent Care, who can expect a colorful Yelp review from yours truly.

The better news is the results have come in from my physical.

Apart from the abnormally high testosterone levels, my real doctor who was impressed with my 3 hour daily exercise routine, says, without hesitation…

"Rich, you're the fittest fat man I've ever seen."

We went over the numbers via the phone and he invited me to look into one of the key indicators of good health, my resting heart beat of 51. Which as you can see from the accompanying chart is not bad for a 44 year old guy.



I was thrilled.

My wife, who after yesterday's post looked over our lucrative insurance policy to see how much she'd stand to gain upon my demise, not so much.

Not long ago, I ran into my former boss and friend Rob Siltanen. We got around to talking shop and he reminded of something he had told me years ago, "always try a spokesman."

When coming up with campaign ideas there are many avenues to go down, a spokesperson, Rob said, was the best.

When you create a spokesperson you are creating intellectual property. It's tangible. And he should know. He gave birth to Baby Bob, who made his debut for FreeInternet.com. The commercials, with the adorable talking baby, became so popular CBS bought the character and turned it into a TV show.

And Rob started receiving residuals.
Mailbox money, the best kind of money.

For years, I have tried to heed Siltanen's sage advice. And for years my spokespeople have never got past the stage of infancy.

Last week while cleaning out my files and making room for the 2014 tax paperwork, I found some work John Shirley and I had pitched for Mass Mutual Life Insurance. It was a spokesperson campaign.

We cleverly called it the Salesman of Death campaign.

It featured a pitchman (Mr. Bean was our prototype) who would travel the country and remind folks they were going to die. And how now would be a good time to consider Life Insurance, Long Term disability and a host of other end-of-life financial products.

John would be the first to tell you the art direction was very rough. This is just first blush material for internal meetings kind of stuff. But you get the idea.

We loved the notion of a man selling Life Insurance against the backdrop of mortality. Of course every campaign needs a manifesto, I actually wrote 5 for this one.

This was my fav:


This was also rough, and upon second inspection, has a few typos and is tad over-written. But as I mentioned it was internal. And when agencies give you two days to crack a brief, this is what happens.

We all have campaigns we wish could have made it. The Salesman of Death will remain one of my favorites. It certainly would have been more memorable than what Mass Mutual decided to put on the air. Which for the life of me, I can't remember.

I bring all this up because last week, it happened again. I can't discuss the details suffice to say my partner John Figone and I had come up with a pretty unique spokescritter that we had a lot of heart for.

Like Baby Bob, it could have evolved into an intellectual property. Maybe even a TV show. And then I could sit on my fat ass and collect residual checks.

But that didn't happen. That's never the way it happens.

The idea was killed.

Or, to quote another headline from the Salesman of Death campaign.

"Died unexpectedly." Now there's an oxymoron.

This story is going to sound very familiar to you.

It wasn't inspired by any specific set of circumstances that happened to a colleague within the last month. Six months. Or even a year. Because the truth is, it has happened to me. And it has happened to you. And if it hasn't happened to you, trust me it will.

You take on a new job.
You're excited.
And you've got a hard-on for the business.

Doesn't have to be advertising, but for the sake of this piece, and because I haven't railed or vented about advertising for a week, let's say it is.

You dig in, drink the Kool Aid and devote yourself to the craft. That means taking on a leadership role. Not only voicing a strong opinion but doing the homework and the legwork to back it up. It can be a grind. You eat a tiny bowl of shit once in a while. And you bite your tongue when you have to.

But it's all for the good of the team. And the agency.

A year or two later, you start to see the fruits of your labor. Business picks up. You notch a few pitch victories. And get some decent TV spots out the door….oh, I'm sorry, Integrated Branded Content Units.

All the hard work has paid off. Or at least, in theory, it should.

Because the closed-door, throbbing-vein meeting with the agency CEO did not go as well as you had hoped.

"We'd like to give you a promotion, we really would. And we'd like to give you a bump in salary, but we really can't. I know we had discussed the idea of incentives and bonuses when we first hired you, but as you know, we've all had to tighten our belts."

Really?
We've all had to tighten our belts?

Then why am I picking up the Wall St. Journal and reading about a 43% pay hike for the holding company officers?

Why is Business Insider doing a photo shoot of the coolest vacation homes belonging to the 37 Wealthiest Ad Pros? 23 of whom work for this organization?

And how does the agency afford your three times a week in-office Bikram Yoga Sessions?

"Company policy says you're not supposed to be reading the Wall St. Journal, Business Insider, Adweek, Adage, or Mediabistro. Agency employees are also requested not to look at any SEC filings or publicly disclosed financial documents. And under no circumstances are agency staff permitted to read adaged.com , adcontrarian.com , rotationandbalance.com  , and definitely not R17."

And so you do what any disgruntled employee would do.

But you never get out of the car at the gun store parking lot. And instead start interviewing with another agency. They are impressed with your achievements and make you an offer you can't refuse.

Not without some delicious feeling of delight, you give your two week notice.

And suddenly, the belt that was supposed to be tightened, miraculously becomes loose. Especially after the agency does the calculations and decides it would cost more to replace you than to properly butter your bread as they originally promised.

Too late, you tell them.
And rightfully so.

If this has happened once, it's happened a million times. It's happening right now.

Some mid-level creative has sweated all weekend long to build up the courage and request a chat with the CCO or CEO. And even as you are reading this, some muckutty-muck is hemming and hawing his or her way through a convoluted monetary discussion that boils down to:

"There's plenty for us, there's none for you."

When I am asked to give advice to younger people, you know younger than 44, I always tell them to strike while the metal is hot.

If you are lucky enough to hit a home run in this business or even knock out a few triples with players in scoring position, you must immediately translate that into some form of compensation.

Now.
Do not take "no" for answer.

Because the people you are working for, the ones telling you there is no money, these are the same people who are capitalizing on your success. They're slapping their names on the credit list. They're sitting on panels, bloviating about their imaginary contribution to the idea. They're having private conversations with their bosses. They're asking for more money.

And guess what, they're getting it.

I often joke that I am 44 years old.

Of course, we all know that not to be true. I've been lying. I'm not 44. I'm actually closer to 14.

The document above confirms that.

As you may recall, years ago I was involved with several scammers from Nigeria, Togo and the Ivory Coast. I would engage these email scammers and collect all the correspondence for my book , which I'm assuming is already on your shelf.

Because I expressed an interest in the deals these scammers were proposing, I would often request official documentation. And because they always thought they had a sucker on the line, they would respond and send me all kinds of goodies.

Like the Certificate above made out to, are you ready, Heywood Jablomi.

Say it three times fast, out loud, and you'll know why I treasure this phony certificate from the Cote de Ivore Office of the Minister.

I've always had a inclination to sophomoric names. I believe this came about while reading Mad Magazine and its infamous list of must read books:

Yellow River by I.P. Dailey

The Zookeepers Death by Claude Bawls

Supporting Athletes by Jacques Strapp

Getting Fired by Anita Job

Still Not Pregnant by Boris Bitchyakockov

All of which brings us to the today's topic, Writing the Phone Book. Mercifully, the last.

I can think of no better way to conclude this ill-thought series than with a list of names actually found in the April 2009 Edition of the Culver City/Marina Del Rey Phonebook.


Peter Kuntz

Hung Lo

Will Fukui

Bruce Dickhoff

Norma Puziss

I know, I know, pretty juvenile.

But as I have often stated on this blog, I am easily amused.

If you made it this far, it's fair to assume you are as well.

Impossibly, we're on Day Three of "Writing the Phone Book."

Oh how time flies when engaged in such a mundane and tedious affair. I assure you next week we will return to our R17 staples: fevered rants about advertising, illogical xenophobic forays into Middle East politics and the slow degeneration of my mind as I slide towards 45.

Today I consider myself quite lucky, because today is tax day.

I'm not sure I had ever written those set of words before.

Instead of meandering about the Yellow Pages in search of a topic, let's go straight to the Accountants, Certified Public.

Fittingly, they are listed after Abortion Services and right before Advertising Agencies & Counselors. I leave you to write your own hardworking jokes about that placement.

Accountancy is something from which I know. I come from accountancy. The last generation of Siegel men, having seen the previous generations earn a living driving NYC cabs or farming grubs in the old country, decided, in Jeffersonian fashion, that it was time to "move it on up."

My father, my uncle and even my brother, schooled themselves in debits, credits and operating income, and all successfully passed the New York State requirements to earn a CPA.

I too was headed down this lucrative path and a lifetime of hunched shoulders, dusty tax code books and the magical ability to work an adding machine while blindfolded.

My interest in accountancy took a nosedive during my freshman year at college, when I had mistakenly signed up for an 8 AM introductory course. Students at Syracuse University learn very quickly that it is impossible to attend those type of early classes when the temperature is in the single digits and the snowfall is in the double digits.

I switched majors and owe a debt of gratitude to Lake Ontario Effect Snow.

So now I see a professional, Don Jung.

Oddly enough Don is not listed in this version of the phone book. Not that he needs to be. He and his firm are legendary throughout the world of West Los Angeles Advertising Professionals. He's the creative's creative. Stashing money in one place so the government can't take money from another.

And his list of clients couldn't be more stellar. He even does the taxes for Lee Clow. I'm sure Lee is just as impressed that Don works on shaving my debt to the government.

"Oh I didn't know you did the taxes for Brian Siegel."

I feel good about using the same CPA as my former boss. I like knowing I'm getting sound financial advice from the same guy who lords over Lee's numbers.

After all I've been to the Clow household. I've sat in the big leather chairs in the family room, looking over the cliffs of the Palos Verdes. I've heard the waves of the Pacific crashing alongside Lee's personal dock. And I've sat up top, on the deck with a 5 star view of the sun setting under a fiery pink sky.

"Hey Don, I've had a pretty good year. Worked for a bunch of different agencies, picked up some new clients and made a ton of creative directors very happy. What do I have to do to get a house like Lee's?"

"Rich, I'm a CPA not a magician."

Magicians are on page 178.


Coming up tomorrow, the thrilling conclusion to The week I wrote the Phone Book and a visit from Heywood Jablomi.

We're now on Day 2 of The Week I Wrote the Phone Book.

If you're a little disappointed that I'm not going in alphabetical order, I'm sorry. That's just not the way this thing is going to work. When you write the phone book you can do it your way.

As you might expect, the Yellow Pages in West LA is quite exhaustive. Covering everything from Bail Bondsman to Xylophone Repair.

Some sections are quite thick.

In a city of 100 million cars, for example, it's not surprising that there is a full complement of auto shops. Plumbing too seems to be a very lucrative business, you know that is if you don't mind sticking your hands in other people's poop. I guess it's a little like advertising.

Like any other city, Angelenos love their pets. The veterinary section of the phone book goes on for an eternity. But this ad (pictured above) for Dr. Kenneth Jones, DVM, caught my attention.

For so many reasons.

Unlike other practitioners of the veterinary arts, Dr. Jones has included a mission statement:

"All humans & animals are from the same source & have the same life energy. Our hospital honors and seeks to maintain this life energy."

Dr. Ken has gone all Neil DeGrasse Tyson on us.

Talk about a walking, talking cliche of Los Angeles. I'm trying to picture his New York counterpart and how his ad might go something like this:

"Hey, if your dog is shitting all over the rug, come on in, I got pills for that."

Dr. Ken also offers Ophthamology.

It never occurred to me to have my dog's eyes checked. I'm just assuming her eyesight is fine. She finds the food when I put it out. She knows where the water bowl is. And if something doesn't agree with her stomach she always finds a way to vomit on the carpet in a spot that is the most visible. I think her eyesight is pretty damn good.

I don't mean to pick on the good doctor. I'm sure he has many happy customers and saved the lives of thousands of pets.

But he ought to rethink his advertising. There's too much messaging going on.

If you're open 7 days a week, it stands to reason you're open Saturday and Sunday.

The DreamCatcher thingamajig doesn't say ringworm cure. At least not to me.

And finally, if you insist on using a photo of yourself with a disgusting possum on your shoulder maybe it shouldn't be a possum the size of a small Grizzly Bear.


Tune in tomorrow for a spine-tingling look at chartered accountancy.

This is going to require a lot of coffee.

If you have ever watched one of those annoying talent shows on TV -- I live with my wife and two daughters and despite closed doors, double insulated walls and noise-canceling headphones it is impossible to escape them -- you've no doubt heard one of these exuberant judges claim, with complete seriousness,

"You have such a beautiful voice I could listen to you sing the phone book."

In the spirit of mixing things up at R17, I've decided to challenge myself to a similar endeavor.

All this week, and maybe next week, and maybe for a considerable time after that, (I mean who knows where this is going, this could be my milieu), I will write the phone book. Well not exactly "write" it, but whatever the equivalent of singing it would be.

You might be wondering what inspired this exercise in irrelevancy.

Last week the new West LA phone book arrived. It came wrapped in plastic, to protect it from our ferocious drizzle.  It sat on the Adirondack chair on the front porch.

Naturally, because we lead busy lives, it remained untouched there for considerable time. Also naturally, when I went to retrieve it this morning to begin this journey, it was gone. My wife had chucked it in the recycle bin.

And so the more astute of you will recognize this phone book from 2009. If I'm not mistaken that's Troy Aikman running the quarterback sweep for the UCLA Bruins.

I could probably do a few hundred words and some well-spaced paragraphs about the futility of the phone book. Because we have the web now and there's no need for this wanton waste of trees. But other pundits, other more talented pundits, and stand up comics working at places named Guffaws or Chortle Hut, have amply covered that ground.

So let's get started, where one would naturally start when "writing the phone book."

If you haven't looked, the first page is nothing but listings of companies trying to cut in front of the line for your precious dollar.

A-AAA Heating and Air Conditioning

Aardvark Cab Company

AA Acme Satellite Television

These businesses operate under the misguided assumption that Mr. or Mrs. My-Dishwasher-is-Leaking will run to the phone book and immediately turn to the white pages and opt for the first name they see because they're at the front of the book and they must be good.

Of course, that's a faulty business assumption.

Much like the notion if you work in advertising and you keep your nose to the grindstone and do a good job, the boss and the holding company will reward you at the end of the year with a bonus and a bump in your salary.

It's Bullshit. And to prove it, I started smiling and dialing.



I called A Classy Act Entertainment to find out what kind of classy acts they were pimping and it turned out they were no longer in business. Apparently their placement at the front of the book didn't make the phone ring.

I also let my fingers do the walking and tried to reach A Cow Jumped Over the Moon in Beverly Hills and found their cows were no longer jumping.

Finally, I noticed A Century City Dental Group.

Then it occurred to me that if you're seeking a professional dentist by scanning the first listings in the West LA phone book, the cavity in your mouth is dwarfed by the cavity in your skull.



Coming up tomorrow, Dr. Kenneth Jones, the Hippie Dippie Weimaraner Man.

If you've been anywhere near a TV for the last 6 months, it seems like 6 years, you've been subjected to the spots for Asiandate.com and Anastasiadate.com.

They run the two spots back to back and the music for the Russian dating site is an earworm more insidious than any commie subterfuge Senator McCarthy might have dreamed up in 1956.

I haven't dated for a long time. And I can't say I miss it. All those gold digging women trying to snatch my fortune by running their hands through my thinning hairline. Or calling me at all hours of the night in search of some kinky fetishized pleasure.

It got so tiresome.

But if I were a dating man I know I'd steer clear of these two services.

We once had a neighbor who I am glad no longer lives near us. He sold guns out of his garage. He was a fat, drunken slob.

His wife was not. She was Asian. Thin, attractive and considerably younger.

If I had to guess, and I'm more than willing to, they didn't meet at a party. Or a blind date. They met via one of these cleverly disguised mail order bride sites.

From what I could hear a few doors down the street, there wasn't a lot of that Asian serenity promised in the commercial. There was loud fighting. And on those occasions when I would wake up early to go for a pre-sunrise morning run, I would often him hiding in the driveway, behind his van, downing a Tallboy of beer from a brown paper bag so she couldn't see him. Though you could smell him from Pacoima.

She was a bonafide Dragon Lady and I'm sure he was on the phone quite often with Customer Service inquiring about a refund.

Similarly I can't imagine hooking up with a money-for-marriage woman fresh off the boat from Stalingrad or Smolensk. Maybe it's just my imagination running wild, but I have to believe many of these comrades are tied to the Russian Mafia, the worst mafia of all the Mafias.

Before you know it I'd be sending 4 digit moneygrams back to Moscow or find myself sleeping with the creamed herring.

No thank you.

And even if that weren't the case, I can't see myself with any woman who could drink me under the table.

Or beat me at arm wrestling.

In case you're still wondering about that earworm, listen at your own risk.


Whenever there is a discussion about the Open Office Plan -- and there have been many -- some clown will always mention Jay Chiat as a pioneer of the idea.

I use the word clown purposefully because it's simply not true.

In the mid-90's, one may recall, Jay gave us the Virtual Office. Not the same as the Open Office with it's long sweatshop tables, the shoulder-to-shoulder employees banging away at their computers and the non-stop thumping of some Belgian bullshit house music.

In the Virtual Office, as the theory went,  employees were free to take their laptops and cellphones and work anywhere in the building, a war room, the cafeteria or even a refashioned Tilt-A-Whirl caboose. Management was also cool with employees leaving the building and doing their business off campus, at a coffee shop, a library or even a strip club (so I've heard).

In fact, they encouraged people to leave the office.

Mostly because due to a planning error, the famed Binocular building wasn't big enough for all the employees.

Prior to the Virtual Office, I worked for Jay Chiat at the Warehouse on Main Street. This too was not an Open Office. My partner and I, like all the creative teams, had a large, airy, walled off cube.

It was easily 300+ square feet of space.
Big enough for two then, adequate for twelve today.

In 1997, Chiat/Day moved into the Playa Vista office. Lovingly shot by my buddy, Bill Hornstein  in this piece for the Clios.

Again, not an Open Office by any stretch.

In fact, recognizing what office planners today fail to recognize, each creative team was given its own semi-private, territorially-intact cube in what is referred to as the Cliff Dwellings.


That's my old office right there behind the old Datsun. As you can see it's occupied by someone (guy on phone) thinner, younger and more handsome, but I spent a lot of good hours right there.

I didn't have to wear noise canceling headphones. I didn't have to whisper my thoughts so other creatives might "lift" them. And I didn't have to go to the parking lot to speak with my doctor about my irritable bowel syndrome. Though my former partner will be happy to verify that phenomena.

I hear a lot of people grumbling about leaving advertising because it's not creative anymore. Or it's not fun anymore.

I'd leave cause it's not private anymore.

If you've been on Facebook or Twitter lately you might have noticed I've been on a little tear about Bacon Bits.

I make this assumption knowing that the 23 people who regularly read R17 are also friends on social media.

If you haven't caught any of my Bacon Bit bits, I'll gladly back the truck up a little.

I like to think of myself as a problem solver. I get paid to come up with ideas for companies with marketing or advertising challenges. But my thinking doesn't stop where the foam core board ends. There's no reason why I can't apply some of this 44 year old creativity to other, more pressing problems.

And none could be more urgent than the ClusterFuck that is the Middle East.

As I write this, parents of Kenyan college students are mourning and burying 148 children slain by un-Islamic Al Shabaab terrorists.

In Yemen, Un-Islamic Shiite rebels are at war with a brutal Un-Islamic Sunni regime.

And in Syria and Iraq, Un-Islamic Sharia-loving, Caliphate-builders are in a battle of the ages with other Un-Islamic Sharia lovers who want to build a slightly different Caliphate with a slightly uglier flag.

It is so mindbogglingly stupid there can be no political or military solution.

But there may be a culinary one.

You see, these brave extremist warriors who so courageously attack shopping malls, college campuses and preschools, desperately seek martyrdom. And the 72 virgins. It is, I believe the only way these incredibly ugly men will ever get laid.

Death, they will tell you, is an honor. And honor, or their twisted notion of honor, is a value above all others in that part of the world.

And this where Bacon Bits come in. If we can't strike fear into their hearts with bombs, let's rain down dishonor upon them with the power of pork.

Think about it. During World War II, our home forces including Rosie the Riveter, mobilized en mass to build planes, tanks and whatever was necessary to defeat the Nazi war machine. Today, in 2015, we could put our farmers and Monsanto Food engineers on DefCon 5 and call for the massive production of Bacon Bits.

We could load these tiny nuggets of infidel-goodness onto belly-dragging C-130's.

Then, with much fanfare, we could carpet bomb 1000 square miles of desert. You pick a country, Iraq, Syria, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, they all have vast stretches of unused sandy wasteland, mostly because they haven't reached out to the Israelis who could show them a thing or two about 21st century agriculture.

When it's all said and done, that patch of desert would look like a platter of potato skins during Applebee's Endless Appetizer Hour.

There would be much fury throughout the Fertile Crescent.

But no one would get hurt.
No one would die.
And the message would be loud and clear.
And oh so tasty.

"Cut this radical Sunni and Shia shit out. Get your act together. And stop fucking the planet up for the rest of us or we will do to your sorry ass country what we did to this small patch of desert. We will go all-porcine on you and pull out the pulled pork weapons of mass humiliation."


"We're ordering food, do you want some?"

I do want food.

But I don't want to eat it here with you slobs. I don't want to watch you assemble a 259 page deck. And I definitely don't want to be here when a higher level boss gets the pdf at home and starts barking changes just as Jimmy Fallon signs off the air later tonight.

I want to go home. I want to change out of these "business" clothes, lift some weights, jump on the elliptical I have in my garage, and then set my fat ass in front of the TV where I can slaughter the contestants at Jeopardy, drink beer and pretend to listen to my wife.

That's what I want.

And if you, Mr. or Mrs. Agency Big Wig had any inkling about creative management or even took Psych 101 in college, you'd insist I unplug my laptop and head for the door.

Years ago, I heard an anecdote about a legendary freelance writer whose name I will not mention because it's a little embarassing to place the word legendary next to the word copywriter.

Louis Zamperini was a legend. Some schmuck who writes an Oreo tweet during a Super Bowl is not a legend.

This anonymous writer famously told a hardballing recruiter, "If you can't afford my day rate, you can't afford me." I love that. He also said, "Don't expect any new ideas after 4 PM."

He wasn't being rude.
Or short.
He was being honest.

Maybe it's a writer thing, but we are at our best in the morning. If I'm brain deep in a challenge I will often wake up with half-formed ideas already in my head. If it's a manifesto type thing, or long copy or even headlines, I've got 500 or so words strung out in my cerebellum before I've stepped out of the shower.

By the time the hipsters in their skinny jeans and Pharrell hats come strolling in, I'm already mapping out a second campaign.

I'm not being immodest, but I'm 44 now and I know what works best for me.

And I know what works best for you, Mr. or Mrs. Potential Employer.

You're paying me a handsome day rate.
Or as I often put it:

Rich Siegel
Three writers for the price of two.™

You're not paying me to manage. Or sit through meetings. Or navigate office politics. You're paying me to come up with ideas and write. Extending my normal day into a tortuous night of flip flopping, strategic changes, and deck assembling is robbing me of my routine. A routine that allows me to unwind, recharge and refresh.

In other words you can squeeze me for all I'm worth today, but tomorrow I'll be as worthless as a Zune  .


It's all about efficiency and cost-to-work ratios.

The smart employer will come looking for me at 5:30 PM and tell me to hit the high road.

The really smart employer will already be in my face at 3:59 PM.

That's some good blood

You'll hear this from a lot of ex-New Yorkers, but the bagels and the pizza in Los Angeles, suck.

You'll also hear the reason why, the water.

New York water, counter-intuitively, tastes great. And it makes for the best dough, used in bagels and pizza. There are now LA bagel shops that import NY's finest, but in my mind, their products will never measure up to the legendary biales and onion bagels my father and I used to buy at a little shop off Horace Harding Blvd. in Flushing.

You know what else in the bread family sucks?
Matzo.

And it's that time of the year to go to the store and bring home the cardboard boxes of the cardboard bread.

Well, 2015 is going to be a little different.

Because this year we're going all foodie and making matzo the old school way. In the vernacular of the day, we're curating our own ingredients and holistically preparing artisan matzo the way it was meant to be prepared.

And as any Islamic cleric worth his jihad  will tell you, that means we need to secure a few liters of fresh blood from the children of gentiles. Blood, like New York water, is the secret nectar that gives matzo its crave-worthy taste.

I'm not exactly sure how the tradition was born.

The way the story has been told to me, including 44 seder dinners, Pharaoh told the Hebrews to leave in great haste. So quickly indeed that the bread was not given time to rise.

But, according to these Islamic scholars, the same geniuses who prohibit women from driving and insist that they leave the house wrapped in a Coleman Pup Tent, these newly freed Hebrew slaves had enough time to slit the throats of little non-Jewish children, drain their non-Jewish blood and faithfully mix it in with the yeast and water to prepare the holy matzo.

If you can't trust an Islamic Scholar who can you trust?

In any case, we found a good recipe on Yelp.

So now my wife and I are off to the blood bank to sample the goyish hemoglobin and bring home some of that good red stuff.

The Yelp reviewer, Protocols984, says the B+ has a nice bouquet and finishes with a nice nutty flavor.

I'll let you know after the holidays.

For all my fellow gentile child-slaying Tribe members I wish you and yours a Pesach Sameach.

I should have seen this coming.

My relentless ribbing of Dear Leader   has finally caught someone's attention at the DPRK.

I'm assuming after the dust settled on Seth Rogen's movie, Kim's notetaking henchman finally noted the amateur from Culver City -- me.

The missive above arrived in my email. I was hesitant to open it thinking it might contain some malware. But that was almost instantly outweighed by my curiosity. Needless to say I went straight for one of those Internet based apps that translates Korean into broken pigeon English.

And naturally I am going to share it with you.




From the Ministry of Defense operating under Kim Jong Un, Supreme Leader of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea,

To the Yankee pig who maintains and posts pictures of great disrespect, you are a product of slovenly hygiene and nothing but a puppet of the American Imperialist Regime. Your unsheathed aggression will not go unanswered and a strong wind from the noble Kangnam Mountains will soon blow most unwelcome in your direction. You are hereby commanded to cease your seditious activities. Furthermore, you are to remove the offensive, warmongering material or suffer sinister consequences. Officers using state of the art equipment have already compiled a profile of you from the information superhighway. Should you persist with this insulting propaganda, your friends and family will know of your proclivity for furrys. We also have in our possession pictures of unwanted grey hairs growing in your ears and on your shoulders, disclosure of which would bring you, your wife and your daughters great unbearable shame. One last item, Dear Leader does not eat Be Bim Bap.

Die American Mongrel, Die



As some of you may recall, I have a funny way about going about my duties here at RoundSeventeen.

I  normally write the entire week's entries all on Saturday morning. I occasionally revisit the posts during the week for touch up and to check for typos -- I should probably spend more time on that endeavor -- but my routine rarely changes.

This Saturday morning is a little difficult, as last night my wife and I and some friends made our first ever visit to Dear Johns  in Culver City. I'm sure we drank all their whiskey and I am clearly the worse for the experience. However Dear Johns was always on our bucket list and now we can cross it off.

A longwinded way of introducing an idea for a theme-based week that I had earlier in the year.

I would be a tourist in my own home town, visiting sites and venues that somehow I had never managed to see.

It's embarrassing but, for instance, I have never been to the Griffith Observatory. Never. And I like planetariums.

Like every other kid growing up in NYC, I spent countless hours at the Hayden. I'm almost certain these field trips were nothing more an excuse for the teachers to hand the kids off to a planetarium tour guide so they could get a break, go shoe shopping or smoke cigarettes in Central Park.

My wife and daughters have been to the Griffith. I have not.

Nor have I ever been to the Greek Theater. This may not be all that surprising as I am a confirmed misanthrope and generally avoid large crowds of people. Plus, I have a hard time reconciling two hours of entertainment with one hour of driving hell getting into a parking lot. And another tortuous hour and a half getting out.

I've driven by it thousands of times, but I've never been inside the Hotel California, more accurately the Beverly Hills Hotel on Sunset.


This seminal Eagles album was nothing less than the soundtrack of my youth. You couldn't get off the elevator in my college dorm without hearing it. And yet, I've never bothered to turn off Sunset and meander through its lush hallways.

My father, a schnorer, must be spinning in his grave. He made it a habit of visiting five star hotels, stripping down to his trunks and swimming in their fancy-schmancy pools. Once, he took us to the tony Kutsher's Hotel in the Catskills. He told us to act like we belonged there. Until one of the pool boys got curious about our unbranded towels.

"Sir, are you a guest at this hotel?"

"Absolutely. We're in room 428."

"Uh sir, we don't have a room 428. You and your family will have to leave."

That was a walk of shame I'll never forget.

I've never eaten at Pinks.
I've never been to the Getty Museum.
I've never hiked up to the Hollywood Sign.
And never been to Disneyland.

Oh wait, I have been to Disneyland, I'm just trying to block it from my memory. We waited 94 minutes in line for Thunder Mountain and when it was our turn to escape the searing Santa Ana winds and relentless heat, the roller coaster broke down.

The Crappiest Place on Earth.

But, as I mentioned earlier, I didn't get to visit these must-see sites. Mostly because I've been extremely busy this year, quite possibly the busiest year in my dozen as a freelancer. The staycation will have to wait.

Not only do I have two more posts to write this morning. I've got to gear up for my afternoon assignment, the fine folks at Collins Colostomy Bags, "Doing your do-do right since 1937" want to exploit this new social media thing and have requested a brand engagement unit.

It's going to be a long afternoon.
I don't think I have enough aspirin.

Every year Business Insider puts out a list of the 37 Wealthiest People in Advertising.

Some years, it's 35.
Others, it's 38.

The number doesn't matter, the obscene truckloads of cash is what matters.

Lately, I've noticed some PR-leery big wigs are shying away from the list and choosing not to lay their cocks on the table top for all the world to see. Maybe it occurred to these tone-deaf fat cats that some Assistant Account Executive who hasn't had a raise or seen a Christmas bonus in 7 years might be reading about their piggish salaries and start asking questions.

I know I have questions.
Namely, what the fuck do these people do?

I've been in this business for 30 years. But Rich, you're 44, did you skip 10th grade and go directly into copywriting? Let's not get bogged down by arithmetic and the gyrations of the sun and Earth.

The point is, I know how an ad agency works.

There are many moving parts. The Creative Department, the Account Management Department, the Broadcast Production Department, the Operations people and of course, the always expanding, always shape shifting Media Department.

I also have a general idea of how the departments interact with each other to gestate campaigns, bring them to the unsuspecting public and steward a brand towards mediocrity.

What I don't understand are the people who have escaped the trenches, who no longer deal with the day-to-day insanity and haven't sat in a status meeting since 1998. These are the people on the Business  Insider List. They have long titles that usually include one or more of the following words:

Global
Regional
Experiential
Innovation
International

I know this is where those titles get generated .

I know how much money they're making in terms of salary, stock options and various "performance" - based bonuses.

I know where they sit on the plane, regardless if the flight is less than 6 hours and does not cross international borders.

I know their yachts.
Their favorite Rose.
And the opulent hotels they stay at while in Cannes.

I also know these are not the people fielding phone calls from angry clients because the car in the commercial was Jet Black and not Onyx Black.

Or lugging foam core boards to the 7 AM pitch in Cincinatti for the prestigious Southern Ohio Hardee's Franchisees.

Or sitting in on a focus group, eating wet tuna fish sandwiches while watching a group of over-animated Houston housewives decimate six, long, hard fought, weekend-less months of creative development.

I know so much about these folks.

What I don't know and what I'd still like to know is…

...what the fuck do these people do?

You may recall a few days ago I put out the word that I was looking for my 100th follower on RoundSeventeen. It seemed to me that after 6 years of bludgeoning myself and my 96 faithful followers that I deserved to be in the esteemed triple digit club.

And unlike past reader participation events, you responded. Spiking my membership level all the way to 100.

I had promised to do a follow up post dedicated to the lucky reader who helped us cross that magical threshold. Today I am following through on that promise.

Because I have built an entire career based on integrity. Well, you know, as much integrity as a copywriter who deals with weasel words, misdirection and selling people shit they don't need, can possibly muster.

Sadly, blogger.com does not tell me which new member put us over the mark, so I have chosen a member at random.

That's right, 81Z18QM91eoVWZ5YCv1Xliv133WCn_yBsZ7PpA--, today is your lucky day.

Though I'm told otherwise, RoundSeventeen doesn't get a lot of exposure. People who come here are mostly friends, family and colleagues. And the occasional high school alumni who no doubt sees this blog and thinks:

"Wow, I thought Siegel was going to make something of himself. What a waste."

Not surprisingly,is one of those colleagues.

He and I came up through the ranks together.  I'll never forget when we both would write race win ads. Or small space newspaper ads. Or even participate in gang bangs -- that's industry nomenclature for those who might be wondering.

Sometimes I would prevail, other times I wouldn't.

Though good natured about it, would never pass up an opportunity to rub it in.

"What did the Creative Director say? Oh yeah. Hey, good work Siegel but we're going with  campaign. You could learn a lot from  and maybe spend less time playing pool and more time trying to come up with work as good as

We went our separate ways.

And met an art director in NY

They hitched up and bought a condo in Yonkers of all places. The condo was in a part of town earmarked for redevelopment and the city paid three times as much as the original sales price.

So and his wife got out of the ad business and opened up retail store, The Brisket Emporium, where you can purchase home cooked brisket. Bubby's, prepared in traditional Jewish style and perfect for High Holidays, Passover or even Shiva. And Bubba's, authentic Texas style brisket.
are doing extremely well. They have two kids. I can't remember their names. And they're set to open another store.

I couldn't be happier for


Last week I got an email from an unknown admirer on linked in.com. A fellow ad professional who told me, in glowing terms, how much he had enjoyed my prodigious postings of Kim Jung Un photos  and my fictional, sometimes funny, captions.

Lately, the tumblr blog that I maintain has been a hotbed of activity. Picking up new followers by the boatload. Sadly none of them have any media connections and can do me any good.

Just out of curiosity I went back to the archive and noticed I have been relentlessly poking at the Pudgy One since April 2013.

Do the math.
That's close to two years.
Holy crap I thought, I gotta get a life.

But then I had a different thought.
This is my life.

I love the idea of finding these strange photos, slapping on a few choice words and sending it out over the ether knowing that it provokes a giggle, a laugh or even, if I'm lucky and having a really good day, a spit take of coffee over an unguarded keyboard.

You'd be surprised how little effort it takes. The pictures come from the official mouthpiece  of the DPRK. And if the caption doesn't materialize in 5 minutes, I usually discard it and move on to another photo.

I doubt anything will come of the collection, though I'd like to turn the entire collection into a book. But I do subscribe to the notion that "good luck favors those who put in the hard work."

Or even the flippant, meaningless work.

Besides, it keeps my name out there and on the radar of agency recruiters. And junior copywriters who must be thinking, "this old man is off his rocker."

Then again, it's not as if the venture hasn't produced some dividends.

Because now that I'm on Tumblr and I have close to a thousand followers and I have access to their newsfeeds, which tend to be far more eclectic and interesting than my newsfeeds on Twitter or Facebook.

"Had a great chicken asada burrito while in Austin last week at SXSW. Zzzzzzzzz…"

There's Japanese Manga.
Teenage girl angst.
White supremacist propaganda.
And lots of GIFS.

Tumblr is awash is GIFS. Most not worth watching. But occasionally there will be a share worthy diamond in the rough.

Enjoy .

If I had a second shot at my life in advertising, I probably would have done a few things different.

One of my regrets is that I never became an Executive Creative Director or a Chief Creative Officer. I know I would have liked the opportunity to helm all the creative decisions and left my own imprint on the business. I like to naively think that no "shit" would have made it out the door.

But that day will never happen as I have become a victim of my own hard-headedness and my self-evident tendency towards bloviation.

Instead of speaking my mind, I should have, as Lee Clow once told me, learned the art of listening. In fact, if you were to question Lee, he would tell you that his success stems from the ability to listen.

It's that simple. (More on that at a later date)

In short, there are no second shots.

And now, at 44, you could argue that my career record needle is fast approaching the paper label in the center of the album. That has its own benefits. For instance, I can speak freely on unpleasant events and unpleasant people (without names of course) with little or no fear of retribution.

About twenty years ago, John Shirley and I were asked to head up the pitch for the new Universal Studios Islands of Adventure Amusement Park in Orlando. The business was worth $100 million and the agency was willing to jump through hoops to please the pitch consultant, a monumentally noxious man who made a habit of talking with his mouth full.

He insisted any agency team working on this mammoth piece of business have a first hand view of the park. Not unreasonable. Except at the time, the park had not been built yet. And it was August. And it was in Orlando. Orlando, Florida.

In other words, it was memorably hot.

For three days, in searing T-shirt soaking humidity, we walked around a 150 acre empty lot and looked at steel I-beams, scaffolding and empty pits. The torture punctuated by our over-zealous, mealy mouth host.

"Over here is going to be the Superman Roller Coaster, which will soar 450 feet onto the air and give riders an excellent view of the Hulk Roller Coaster which will be built in that pit, once they figure out the drainage situation."

Did I mention that guided tour was often delivered while our host was scarfing down croissants, hot dogs, pizza, falafel and baba ghanoush. This man had an insatiable appetite.

If I ate like him, I'd look like me.

When the useless walking tour of the construction site was over, we were treated to a 3 hour briefing. Making matters even worse, the agency we were pitching against was also in the large conference room. When we weren't sizing up the competition we had to listen to Marathon Man and his mammoth sized ego drone on about roller coasters.

At the conclusion, my partner John Shirley did one of the funniest things I had ever witnessed. He turned to the competing agency.

"If you're thinking about a campaign where people stand up in their seats and scream at the top of their lungs as the roller coaster free falls, don't.  Because we already have that story boarded up."

Everyone laughed.

Because we were Chiat/Day and would never resort to such overworked cliched amusement park advertising.

The other agency had no such compunction.

They pitched an entire campaign of people riding coasters, waving their arms and screaming at the top of their lungs.

They won the business.


There are times when I feel obliged to give something back to advertising, an industry that has given me so little.

Last week was one of those times.

I don't remember (which is not all surprising these days) who had asked me to sit on a panel at Santa Monica High School's Career Day, but for some unknown reason they did. Conveniently ignoring the fact that technically, as a Freelancer, I am Unemployed.

Have been unemployed for close to a dozen years.

Nevertheless, if someone  was going to giving me my own souvenir name badge, a snazzy lanyard and my own Vikings-emblazed sippy cup, who was I turn down such swag?

My initial inclination was to ironically show up for Career Day sporting a T-shirt, cargo shorts and flip flops. To show these kids that you could make a decent living in the business world in attire that was very un-businesslike. My wife dissuaded me of this notion. And I slapped on some monkey clothes.

However, upon my arrival I was greeted my buddy, Paul, who is an English teacher at Samohi. He was wearing a t-shirt, cargo shorts and flip flops.

As I pushed my way through the crowded hallways, before the 3rd period panel, I was naturally reminded of my own days in high school -- a messy collage of good times, bad times, laughter, sadness, adolescent confusion, drug experimentation, and enough unused testosterone to fuel two penises.

In other words, typical.

I mention this because as I looked over the 30-40 kids in the room, I spotted the same neuroses.

Sadly, my fellow panelists did not. Their understanding of what a Career Day at a High School is, differed greatly than mine.

The woman seated next to me, a branding, PR consultant officer with multiple degrees in finance and marketing, took the time to prepare a robust powerpoint presentation. Fortunately, the hour time limit prevented her from abusing us all with that little gem. But she was able to monopolize the discussion and when it came time to inspire these kids, she never failed to fail.

"Has anybody here ever heard of Metric Analytics? Well, I've done a little research on your behalf and you'll be happy to know that in the next 10 years there will be 1.5 million excellent jobs in the field of Metric Analytics."

Are you kidding me?

When I was able to wedge in a word I made sure to give them the flip side to her enticing tales of Big Data, Bell Curves and Pie Charts.

I told them how much fun it was to travel in Business Class, stay in fancy hotels, and raid the mini-bar starting with the $12 Toblerone Chocolates and working your way through the Jack Daniels airplane bottles all the way to the $22 jar of Deluxe Mixed Nuts.

I talked about having celebrities act out your jokes on film, playing golf on the company dime, flying in private jets and sitting in the booth next to Johnny Carson at Chaya Playa.

They'd never heard of Johnny Carson.

The point is, these were 16 year old kids. They needed to be shown some razzle dazzle. I put myself in their shoes, the same shoes I was walking in just 28 years ago. I wanted to keep it light on industry specifics and heavy on boondoggles, graft and free alcohol.

Ms. Battaan Death Powerpoint wanted to babble on about analytics, segmentation and PR Crisis Management. Oh, for christ's sake.

I could tell you the students were bored. But the best indication came at 11:34 when the bell rang. There was no applause, no thanks, no students lingering on to ask questions and maybe dig in a little further into the exciting world of emerging social media demographics. They simply swiveled around in their plastic desk/chair and bolted for their next class.

I had to get to work. So, on the way back to my car and still fuming over this colossal waste of time, I walked by the career day greeting area that had been set up for the panelists. There, and without the least bit of guilt, I helped myself to an additional blue Samohi Career Day sippy cup.

Which means some well-intentioned fireman or astronaut went home with none.

Sorry.

My mind is in the gutter

Spotted this the other day on Jackson Ave, home of the hipster-famous Jackson Market, where every tattooed douchebag and his ponytailed bro come for turkey panani's pressed on fresh baked sourdough bread.

It caught my attention, because no less than 2 weeks ago, I too had my home address stamped painted onto the curb by an enterprising young man who told me he done two tours in Iraq.

I'm pretty sure that for some, claiming to be a Vet is nothing more than a marketing ploy. Nevertheless I have a soft spot for young boys and girls who have served.

But now I feel like I've been jypped.

For ten dollars all I got were the black block numbers against a stark white background.

What I didn't get was the crowning pineapple palm tree against the setting sun dipping into the azure blue waters of the Pacific. In the world of curb-painted addresses, this is the Rolls Royce.

And I mistakenly got the Ford Taurus. Which they don't even make any more.

I understand these are minor first world problems. A petty grievance at best. Particularly for some of you readers back east.

I understand it has been a brutal winter of snow, snow and more snow. But the weather is warming up. And with any luck your curbs will be visible by early May.

If you choose to have it painted, choose wisely.

Today was a good day.

As the tagline for RoundSeventeen suggests, I'm not big on pandering. Or kissing ass. Or showering false praise on work that is better suited for a Golden Shower.

Let's face it, vitriol and cynicism are my bread and butter.

Fortunately, I have chosen a career in advertising where the grist for the mill is supplied on a daily basis.

Sometimes even twice a day.

"We're having a check in at 11 AM. And another one at 6 PM. Please format all the work in the enclosed template."

Lately, I have been on a manifesto tear. Writing anthems and jack off corporate poetry morning, noon and night. Everything from _______ to ________, not to mention _____________. NDA's prevent me from revealing the brands who can't get enough of these chest beating odes to excellence, commitment, innovation and blah, blah, blah.

Don't get me wrong, I'm not complaining. I've written a thousand of these and I'll write a thousand more if that's what it takes to make my nut and keep me out a dirty nursing home when I escape…er, exit this business.

But recently, I was brought in for an assignment that did NOT involve a manifesto.

It was like having your head held under water for three minutes plus and finally breaking through the surface for fresh air.  Not only was I not asked to write a manifesto, my partner, John Figone and I were tasked with coming up with funny ideas. That's funny with a capital F.

Sadly, this does not happen often enough.

I think when Creative Directors want funny they mistakenly ask writers who sport $400 glasses or Capri pants or hipster haircuts.


In any case, my partner and I dug in. And while once again I am unable to disclose the nature of the project or the brand, we hit a goldmine of material. We mined the minutiae and before long were spitting out ideas faster than we could write them down.

We were riffing. As fluidly and effortlessly as any musician. It was one of those rare times when you think to yourself:

"This is why I got in the ad business in the first place."

Time will tell if any of these ideas survive the scrutiny of the ACD's, the CD's, the ECD's, the CCO, the CEO and of course the most critical link in the creative chain of command, the all-knowing, all-insightful junior planner -- whose scant two years in the business world has magically yielded the ability to shoot down ideas with the steely efficiency of a Messerschmidt 262.

But none of that matters. I'm finally reaching that point in my career where I can put emotional distance between myself and what's written on the page. No sale, no problem.

The point is my partner and I think it's funny. And had each other laughing from the late morning to the early evening.

Not a bad way to earn a day rate.


I'm old enough to remember New York City before it became a haven for big box stores, chain restaurants and tourists willing to drop a mortgage payment on fancified candies.

I remember neighborhoods you don't go near.
Bars that would stay open round the clock.
And peep shows that would escort you to a world of fascinating seediness for the price of a quarter.

As suburban kids from Northern NJ and bordering Rockland County on the NY side, we made it a point to visit "the City" as often as we could.

More times than not it was a function of whose car was actually running.

When no cars were available we counted on Big Jim.

His father ran a Lawn Doctor franchise and had full use of a working Lawn Doctor van, equipped with two bucket seats in the front. And enough cargo space in the back for a couple of lawn mowers, a grass seed dispenser and 100 lbs. of fresh horse manure.

To accommodate the four of us however, we simply removed the gardening accoutrement and replaced it with two folding chaise chairs.


Not sure these would pass muster with the OSHA folks, but they also would have taken a dim view of the pony keg of beer we often had handy.

This is what you get when you grow up with a bunch of Irish guys.

Come hell or green water, we always made it into the City for St. Patrick's Day.

These were monumental drinking occasions. That often started as early as 8:00 AM on March 17th. And sometimes did not end until March 18th.

We covered the city from the north side, not exactly the north, we stayed below 125th street, to the south. From the East Side to the West Side. And we'd park that Lawn Doctor van anywhere we damn well wanted thanks to the parking sticker in the window identifying Jim's dad as an active member of the NYPD.

Everywhere we went, we marked our territory. I will never forget the look on the face of the security guard at Rockefeller Center who caught us midday, generously irrigating the bushes near the skating rink.

"What are you boys doing?"

We zipped up and ran away laughing. And we're still laughing.

But it's probably a safe bet we won't be doing that, or anything like that, today.

Probably.

There was a lot of College in the air last week.

There was the much-publicized frat house at the University of Oklahoma. These khaki-pants wearing douchebags got caught with their sheets down as they gleefully chanted ditties from the KKK songbook.

And there was the less-publicized, but equally-shameful student council at UCI, who not only voted to have the United States flag banned from campus but took the time to pen a disgusting diatribe   against the country that was subsidizing their higher education.

On the positive side, after considering many options from one end of the country to the other, my daughter finally made the commitment to attend the University of Colorado. She took a shine to their fashion forward black and gold school colors. And that means a lot to a 17 year old girl.

All of which had me thinking about my own collegiate years and the high jinx that ensued.

Nothing that would have made the national news, mind you. But nothing that brings me much in the way of pride either.

As a freshman, I once aided and abetted two buddies who stole a fetal pig from the University Biology Lab. It was pickled in a jar that stood a foot tall. The pig, with all its noticeable features including a tiny snout and a spirally tail, was suspended in a foul smelling orangey-brownish jelly type substance.

Stealing the pig was bad.
Nailing it to the door of a fellow student's dorm room, was worse.

Instagram wasn't around back then, otherwise I'd show you the photos. Suffice to say, I'm one of a handful of human beings walking the planet who can legitimately claim they have crucified a piglet.

After a summer of travel, I returned to Syracuse for my senior year with no housing options. I was forced to rent a room in an old Victorian Boarding House. Despite having vacant rooms throughout the house, Charles the landlord assigned me to an unfinished basement room located directly underneath the kitchen.

It was awful.
Dank, musty and noisy.
And as far as renting me a different room he wouldn't budge.

So I did what I believe most college students in that situation would do. I opened the basement window, ran the garden hose into the room and opened the spigot until an inch of water covered the ratty carpet.

"Chuck, you gotta get over here real soon. I think a pipe broke. There's water all over the place, so I had to move my stuff into one of the rooms upstairs."

As you might imagine, Chuck and I were not the best of chums. He was a tyrant of a landlord. Cheap, overbearing and invasive. He once walked in, unannounced, on one of the female co-eds in the house while she and a player from the football team were in flagrante delicto.

The house itself was old. But clean and stately. It sported an old wooden stair rail that ascended three flights. It looked something like this:


Some of the railings to the banister were already missing. On one particularly raucous night of drinking, my buddy Ted and I decided to kick out a few more of the railings. When Chuck laid eyes on the staircase, which now resembled a hockey player's mouth after a bad fight, he decided it was time to call Johnny Law.

There was little the police could do other then take pictures of the staircase for documentation purposes.

That night, under the cover of darkness, Ted and I put the bannister railings back in. And moved some others around just to fuck with Chuck -- which in effect, became my senior year master thesis.

As I mentioned earlier, none of this makes me very proud.

On the other hand, I have enough war stories from that year in the boarding house to fill a book. And in retrospect, that could be prove more valuable than my meaningless, over-priced sheepskin from Syracuse University.

Typically, at this point in the year, I would sharpen up my knives, hone my proclivity for sarcasm and skewer the corporate-sponsored, digital jizz-a-palluzza aka the yearly SXSW Festival.

Or as I like to refer to it, Burning Cash Man.

There's plenty of low hanging fruit here.

Hipsters, douchebags and impossibly prescient prophets, with one word names like Dingy, Melon, and Pazz, telling us what the industry will look like in five years.

I'd love to revisit their previous lectures from 2010 and see how many of their precious predictions came to fruition.

Because here's the thing, the shitty banner ads, rich media flash thingamajigs and obnoxious page takeovers that I hated or ignored five years ago, are just as shitty, and indeed shittier, in 2015.

And the brand conversations I was supposed to be having with Wheat Thins, Right Guard Deodorant or even PearlVision, makers of fine reading glasses since 1947, I'm still not having.

Perhaps that breakthrough Brand Engagement Unit is just around the corner.

One can only hope.

Or at the very least waste countless hours at the many forums and panels at SXSW that will be discussing these riveting issues, just as they have been since they corrupted this indie music event 19 years ago.

If I were to hop on a plane and go to Austin, I wouldn't want to miss these seminal get togethers:


Maximizing your brand's inner potential, presented by Plaxo, Foursquare and Google+
Tuesday 9:30 AM Presidential Suite at the Austin Ramada


Elf Me 14, the Return of America's favorite photo upload phenomena.
Wednesday, 10:00 AM at The Austin Comfort Inn Wedding Banquet Room


Going Long, a discussion with the industry's remaining three 45-year old copywriters
Thursday, 6:00 AM at the Austin CVS


Of course I have no plans to go to Austin. I was just there two months ago. And I loved the city.

But if I were to go, my itinerary would look a lot different.

For me, the most important must see events would include a return visit to Black's BBQ and their super spicy homemade hot sauce. Then I'd sample the legendary beef ribs at Langfords. And of course, the obligatory stop at Franklin's where I'd hope to taste their classic Texas brisket.

If you didn't know the line at Franklin's can stretch out a 1/4 mile long and diners have waited up to 5 hours in the pouring rain just to get in.

Imagine what their business would be like if they had a TweetDeck and a few good banner ads.


It might be hard to tell from this picture of me sporting an astronaut helmet, courtesy of the Aerospace Museum at the University of Colorado in Boulder, but I'm happy.

I'm happy.
And I'm sad.
First things first.

Last weekend my wife, my daughter and I sojourned across the continental divide to the hamlet of Boulder, CO, nestled at the base of the Flat Iron Mountains. To describe the place as beautiful is to do it a terrible disservice. It is stunning in every sense of the word.



Even the homeless people on the street have a certain rugged Robert Redford/Patagonia/western chic vibe about them. Unlike the hobos -- my daughter's words -- in Seattle, who are, also in my daughter's words, sketch.

Everything about the place is disgustingly perfect. The streets were clean. There was no traffic. And the food, including the many flavors of local microbrew beers, was amazing. Of course, I like any restaurant that can seat me immediately. Or even, as one truthful hostess said, "I'll have a table for you in 35 seconds."

And she did.

Fuck you, Los Angeles.

The University was no less impressive. Sprawling, spotless and lively. I got in a snowball fight with a bunch of football players, who were taken aback by this 44 year old's strong throwing arm.

Next to the football stadium, there is a recreational center, the likes of which I have never seen.

In addition to the indoor rock climbing wall, the indoor skating rink, the state of the art weight machines, and the two floors of basketball courts, there was a diving arena and an 8-lane indoor swimming pool. I so wanted to challenge those lunkhead football players to a race in the pool and clean their youthful clocks, but my daughter begged me not to.

Apart from being embarrassed by her father on an hourly basis, Abby also loved the place. She wouldn't give us the satisfaction of saying it out loud, but my wife and I know her better than she knows herself.

If there is one drawback to Boulder it's the people.

Don't get me wrong, they were incredibly cheery, friendly and downright outgoing. Their skin glowed. It might have been the reflecting off the white snow that blanketed the town. But was more likely their overbearing Caucasianness.

The place is exceedingly white. And my daughter, who counts among her closest friends, Persians, Hispanics and even a half-black/half-Jewish girl, gave the University a few demerits on the lack of demographics. On the plus side, Abby does not have the swarthy Mediterranean appearance of her parents and is blessed with clear blue eyes and blond-ish hair.

In other words, she'll blend right in.

All in all, I think we have a sale. Which might make you wonder why I'm also sad.

The truth is, I love doing these college campus tours. And now it appears I won't be doing any more of them. For a good long time. Perhaps with my future grandchildren. And that can't come fast enough.

To that end, I've asked my wife to replace our daughter's birth control pills with Tic-Tacs.

Last week, it was announced that Jordan and Israel had signed an agreement  to produce desalinated water from the Dead Sea.

This is significant on several fronts.

First, it proves the Israelis are more interested in peace and less interested in occupying holy Arab land. By the way what Arab land isn't holy?

Because let's face it, if Israel wanted to they could gobble up the territory between the Jordan River and Al Qurayyat in a heartbeat. In fact if the Jordanian soldiers are anything like their Iraqi counterparts, the Israelis could do it without firing off a shot. They could just collect the white flags and stained underwear and call it a day.

Secondly, it proves that when rational people put down their guns and shouts of Allah Akbar, practical solutions can be had.

Imagine if this spirit of cooperation were to sweep into the adjoining territories. All that illiteracy. All that stone age patriarchy. All that unimaginable poverty that lives in the shadow of trillion dollar oil reserves, could be addressed.

Most importantly it begs the question, why not here?

Recently my wife and I found ourselves on the PCH heading north towards Santa Barbara. Along the way we counted three McDonalds, nine Union 76 Stations, and 3, 278 Starbucks.

But not one desalination plant.

With the exception of my ass-nugget neighbor who feels the need to wash his monster trucks every other day of the month, the entire state has been suffering from a severe drought. Despite the recent microbursts of rain, we are still way below our normal water levels.

And yet, right off to our left is the world's largest collection of unusable H-Two-Oh.

I can forgive the misguided planners who built the Metro trains without putting stops in at the Airport or Dodger Stadium, but is unforgivable that we do NOT have desalination plants running up and down the coastline of California.

I don't know, maybe I'm being naive on the matter. The technology could be awfully expensive and make it all undoable. But then again, the Israelis seem to have figured it out.

Maybe that can be the topic of Netanyahu's next speech before Congress.

Before  we moved to the bucolic, tree-lined streets of Suffern, NY, I was raised in the hard-scrabble hoods of Flushing and Jackson Heights in the borough of Queens. In the city that never sleeps.

These were working class neighborhoods, populated by mailmen, low level accountants and soldiers.

Not the soldiers that went off to fight misguided wars in Vietnam, Grenada or Iraq. I'm talking about soldiers who fought for Team Genovese, Team Gambino and Team Corleone.

Mafia guys.

There were plenty in my neighborhood. Hell, there were plenty in my apartment building. I know because my father told me about them. He also played poker with them every other Tuesday night.

For all I know, my father, a fledgling CPA, might have "kept some books" for these wise guys, as he was always looking for a side hustle.

And while he was chummy with the Mob, he was also very careful to make sure I wasn't.

If he caught me hanging out with a bunch of guys with Italian surnames he'd always tell me...

"Never let that guy do you a favor."

"Whaddya mean?"

"Nevermind whatta I mean, you just never let that guy do you a favor."

I suppose had he lived long enough he would have been very happy that I ended up in the crisp, clean corporate world of advertising, free from graft, cronyism and corruption.

All of which is a long winded way of saying that try as I might to avoid the Mob, I ended up being a soldier for them.

We all have.

We might not be shaking down dry cleaners for protection money or hijacking freight trucks leaving La Guardia airport but clearly those of us with marginal talents in the arts, writers, art directors and UX designers, are into prostitution. In a big way.

We don't create shell companies and fronts to create diversions that send IRS tax collectors looking for love in all the wrong places but we do 'creatively' fill out weekly time sheets, and those alone should be enough to file a RICO indictment.

We don't threaten people or run shakedowns, but when a client is unhappy, we conveniently trade them off from one ad agency to a sister agency in the "Family" so that all those little white envelopes stuffed with cash still go to the same bosses.

Maybe you're not buying my Mafia analogy.
Maybe you think it's a stretch.
Maybe.

But the org. chart sent to me by a friend who just got a job at one of the holding companies suggests otherwise:

Here's a dirty little secret about writing and writers.

There are times when I can't come up with an idea for this blog. When I look around me and feel like I've touched on just about everything I want to touch on.

Nothing seems to strike my fancy. Or, more likely I've run out of coffee and find myself to lazy to go the store and buy some more.

Today is one of those days.

That's when I find it best to turn this blog loose on itself.

I started looking at layout of this page and noticed the morticed box in the lower right hand corner. Some of you might even recognize your face. Well, 95 of you might.

You, for some unknown reason, are Members of the RoundSeventeen Club.
Or is Association?
Or better yet, the RoundSeventeen Society of the Enlightened?
I like that.

I don't know why 95 of you have bothered to Sign In. Membership does not have its privileges. I don't send out personal letters of appreciation. I don't acknowledge your birthdays or work anniversaries. There's not even a 40% discount at the R17 Gift Shop.

Nevertheless, I do feel the need to show my appreciation for filling out the form and clicking all the requisite buttons. And I'd like to say that in the future there may be some tangible rewards in the form of a T-shirts, coffee mugs or R17 one gigabyte jump drives.

But I can't.
And I won't.

With all that duly noted, I would like to get 5 more of you to Sign In. For no other reason than to put me over the 100 member mark. I feel that after 6 years of daily postings, some of them even noteworthy, that's not too much to ask.

Also, an added incentive, I promise to commission an entire post dedicated to lucky #100.

Provided of course that person's profile picture does come up like this:


I'm a hammock guy.

Some people like stand up desks to straighten out their spines and look all forward-thinking.

Some people like their Herman Aeron chairs in the locked off position to prevent reclining.

Some people like visiting chiropractors because they have good sucking candy at the receptionists. Sorry, I can't think of a single reason why anyone would visit a Chiropractor.

But me, I like hammocks.
Always have , always will.

Maybe it's because I'm blessed, and even at the advanced age of 44, have never had problems with my back -- though I understand the painkillers for such ailments are really good.

Or it might have something to do with my affinity for swimming. There's something very liberating about being weightless in the prone position.

In any case, as I've mentioned before, I'm a hammock guy. And pictured above is my latest hammock, generously gifted to me by my lovely wife, despite my poor supermarket choices in garbage bags.

As you might have guessed, assembling this monstrosity was no walk in the park.

Those are four massively heavy arched timbers of dense Cyprus wood. And they had to be configured in such a way that the foot long bolts would slide through the pre-drilled holes. Then there was the matter of digging through my garage for the right size ratchet socket.

With twenty years of home ownership under my belt, I have accumulated hundreds of ratchet sockets. Not one of them properly returned to its clearly marked ratchet socket home in the plastic infused ratchet socket carrying case.

In other words, it wasn't pretty.

There was a lot of cursing. Nail biting. More cursing. Awkward cantilevering of the dense wood in order to hold the arches in place. And a lot more cursing. I've had an easier time putting together a Swedish Credenza from Ikea -- Der Florgenshpippel.

But as you can see, I persevered.
And the hammock is incredibly comfortable.

In fact, as soon I exhausted the last bolt and washer, I kicked off my shoes and laid down to enjoy its gravity-defying Nirvana.

And then, it started raining.

Is it safe?

"Hand me the Beavertail Burnisher."

"…The Watkins Torque Wrench…"

"I'll need the Goat's Foot Elevator."

These are not phrases you want to hear at 8:30 in the morning. In fact at that hour I'm usually in deep REM sleep, dreaming. And the only thing I want to hear is Scarlett Johannsen whispering in my ear, "let's go for number 5."

The reality is, these are not phrases you want to hear at any hour of the day. It means you're in the dentist's chair. And apart from the freaks who live on the outer edges of Tinder, no one likes sitting in a dentist chair.

For the past few months my lower right jaw has been throbbing. A low grade, off and on pain, not unlike the pain of an indecisive client. Naturally, my wife admonished me to see the dentist. And naturally I ignored her.

It wasn't until the admonitions slipped into triple digits that I heeded her advice. After 23 years of marriage this is how the pattern goes.

The initial good news from the dentist was that the tooth had a minor fracture. With any luck, he could seal it up and top it with a crown.

Of course that's the kind of luck that only shines on goyim.

On my second visit, the dentist was busily preparing an impression of my lower right jaw. That's when they stick this contraption, filled with cold blue Playdo, in your mouth until it hardens or runs down your uvula and sets off the gag reflex.

As he removed the goo, he noticed that the fracture in my tooth was now a full blown crack. In my weak understanding of dentistry I thought that meant going from a crown to the more dreaded root canal.

But like I said, I don't have that kind of luck.

The Uberfuehrer….er, dentist said we were now at DefCon5 and that the tooth, the cracked tooth, had to be extracted.

Years ago, I had my wisdom teeth removed. And under some mild anesthesia and ample Vicoden, it was a rather pleasant experience. But Dr. Mengele wanted to extract the tooth right then and there, using nothing more than Novocaine and some semi-rusty pliers.

Since I was already in the chair and didn't want to let a good plastic bib go to waste, I foolishly told him to start yanking.

And that's when I heard the other phrase you never want to hear at 8:30 in the morning.

"Hand me the Franklin Forceps of Eternal Pain."



I'll gladly show you the tooth, but I understand some readers may not want to see it, so you'll have to scroll down a bit to see the Mammoth-sized molar so delicately pulled from the back of my mouth.

Staying busy as a freelance copywriter is a matter of lining up the next gig before the current gig is over. To that end, I am often trolling the Internet, scouring job boards, making note of account changes and sniffing out turmoil.

Turmoil, as I often tell others, is a freelancer's best friend.

"Oh, the ECD Got Quit?"

That means there's a power vacuum and nervous Account People -- like space -- abhor a vacuum. They want their clients in the hands of seasoned and even sometimes cynical veterans. Of course, what Account people want and what Account people get are not always in synch.

Recently I found an interesting job listing.

An agency in town was looking for a Freelance Jr. Copywriter. They specifically requested a Junior and not a middleweight or even a senior.

By the way, just for fun I applied for the job. It only required one click of the mouse and I like to picture the recruiter scratching her head thinking, "Isn't 44 a little old for a Junior Copywriter?"

Then it occurred to me that this one little job listing was the perfect microcosm of our industry and its current state of demise.

You see when an agency says they are looking for a Junior copywriter, they are looking for someone cheap. Cheap, as in we don't want to spend the extra few hundred dollars it might cost to bring in a middleweight, we'd rather trust the stewardship of our clients to someone who still doesn't know the difference between your and you're.

Someone who writes by day and experiments with hipster hairstyles by night.

Someone who has never heard of Jay Chiat and thinks Lee Clow is an appetizer at a Dim Sung Bar.

Hiring a Junior Freelance Copywriter is also incredibly nearsighted. Oh sure you might save dollars in the short term, but with the all the rewrites, the do-overs and the supervisory hours wasted in mentoring, those savings vanish quite quickly.

It's like those mathematically-impaired people who visit seedy strip mall shops to borrow money against their paycheck and get sucked into a vortex of spiraling interest costs. They leave those places with just enough money in their pocket to go next door for two chocolate donuts. Or as they refer to it -- dinner.

It's all part of the commoditization of advertising. Where ideas and creativity have taken a backseat to SuperDesks and low-cost Army Grade toilet paper in the bathrooms.

Which makes this a great time to remind ourselves of the Golden Rule of Commerce:

You get what you pay for.

Followed by the second Golden Rule:

Rich Siegel.
Three Writers for the price of two.™

If you look closely at the swarthy fellow in the picture above, you'll notice something unusual. No, not the hairy forearms, but close.

The man has 6 fingers on each hand.

He was selected for today's post because as of Saturday, my birthday, this blog will have been around for 6 long years.

RoundSeventeen. Biting the hand that feeds it since 2009.

As I approach my 44th birthday I find it hard to believe I'm still writing this thing. I find it even harder to believe anyone is still reading this thing.

Last week I was chatting with my good friend Mike Folino. And by chatting I mean exchanging emails, because I rarely talk to anyone on the phone these days. It's all part of my slipping into hermitude campaign.

RoundSeventeen. Angrily creeping towards obscurity since 2009.

Mike insists, with my prolific posting here and my semi-regular bashing of Kim Jung Un, I am quickly approaching critical mass. He predicts, foolishly so, that soon I will be flooded with waves of new readership. Adding that some publication house will surely hear your name and make big things happen.

RoundSeventeen. Circling the porcelain arena since 2009.

Of course Mike is also a freelance copywriter.

So while he is no doubt a friend, he is also the competition. It goes to reason therefore, that if I'm spending an inordinate time blogging and posting my geo-political nonsense, I'm spending that much less time focused on copywriting.

Meaning Mike could swoop in and grab all those lucrative assignments: manifestos for mattress companies, taglines for accounting software developers and banner ads for ColostCo, America's premier maker of colostomy bags.

RoundSeventeen. Celebrating 6 glorious years of underachievement.

In any case, this is a good opportunity to thank you all for showing up.

And for paying your monthly dues in order to access my daily diatribes…wait a minute. No one has been monthly dues. If I'm not mistaken, I believe the appearance of passive non-existent revenue is the first sign of early senility.

I'm going to sock this picture away, because if I'm still writing R17 six years from now, I can use it again.

RoundSeventeen. Recycling jokes and beating a dead horse


Like many of you, I watched the mammoth hour long Saturday Night Live 40 Year Anniversary Show.

Unlike many of you, and in a tip to today's amazing technology, I did not watch the live show live. And instead watched the semi-live, semi-taped show at my convenience off the DVR.

While I greatly enjoyed the show, I'd be lying if I told you I didn't feel the pain of melancholy and nostalgia.

More so than most I suspect.

Because Saturday Night Live was more than just a weekend diversion, a reason to sit around with college buddies, get stoned and laugh like a cranked up hyena.

For me, it was a dream.

I didn't know how it would happen or when it would happen, but I was certain I was going to get a job as a writer at 30 Rockefeller Center. Talk about naive, clueless and entitled.

One cold snowy night in Syracuse, in the foggy haze brought on by a 6 pack of Genny Cream Ale and some brownies baked with Adirondack Green (hemp that would have been more useful for making rope), I decided to begin my campaign. I wrote a letter to one of the original writers on staff -- Anne Beatts.

Why Anne Beats? Because you can't make lazy masturbation puns with names like O'Donohue and Zweibel.

I don't have a copy of the initial letter, but it's safe to say it was sophomoric, cheap and riddled with grammatical and spelling errors. Not unlike the previous 1200 posts on this blog.

You can imagine my shock and my joy, when I received a personally written letter in return. Signed and sealed on official Saturday Night Live stationary. Anne Beatts was impressed with my ability to work her odd name into so many sentences that all ended with...Anne Beatts off.

I pictured her and the rest of the SNL writing crew gathered on the couch at Studio 8H, drinking coffee, smoking cigarettes and reading my missive aloud. I imagined loud guffaws. Spit takes. And Lorne Michaels getting on the horn with the folks in HR…

"Draft up an offer letter. I'm sure we can get this Siegel character to drop out of college and start working here immediately."

Of course that's not how the real world works at all.

Ms. Beatts had 10+ years on me at the time, on the cusp of becoming the prototypical Cougar. She was probably thinking, maybe I can get this young college kid to come to my Chelsea town home, slip him a stiff drink and throw me a good one.

Or maybe not.

The correspondence went back and forth a few times. But stopped when it became clear I had nothing else to offer but lame chicken-choking euphemisms.

The truth is, that while I wanted so badly to be a writer for SNL, I wasn't ready. And passion is a poor substitute for a portfolio.

Five years later, I still wasn't ready.
Ten years, nope.
Even twenty years later, still not ready.

The irony is, only now do I feel I could walk into those hallowed hallways and knock out a commercial parody. Or a skit. Or even a newscast that could compete with what goes on the air.

Maybe I should fish my old IBM Selectric II typewriter out of the garage and dash something off to SNL.

If I could only find a clever way to work in Lorne Michael's name with the phrase -- making stomach pancakes.

Had I the wherewithal, and the mysterious ability to code and script Java, and differentiate between a domain, a server and a flick flack confabulator, I would have built a website based on the simple premise:

Is this lyric from Kanye West or was it written by Rich Siegel?

You've seen these type of novelty websites before. And they make for fun diversion that gets ink on Buzzfeed, Mashable and other digital magazines that add nothing to our lives. Much like this blog.

But the truth is, right now I have too many side hustles going on as it is.

In addition to R17, I have a tumblr that regularly pokes fun at Kim Jung Un . I've personally taken it upon myself to wage a vigorous battle against religion and the forces, often violent, of fairy tale worship. I'm still trying to craft a collection of short stories.

And of course, I've been working' like a merkin'  to put two girls through college. So, I've taken the simpler, less laborious approach of making this game a posting.

Without further ado, let's begin.

A.

She said gimme that jimmy,
don't put no hat on,
make it snappy,
poody tat want to get her freak on.

The question is, was this rap "lyric" "written" by the man who regularly makes an ass of himself on the red carpet, on stage, or just anywhere he opens his mouth. Or was it written by the fat, bald Jew who makes an ass of himself on a daily basis?

Next up.

B.

You ain't my boss,
You ain't my master,
Come at me I reach for my blaster.
You want it clean there's the mop
You want it fixed don't look at me bitch
I'm outtahere
I'm outtahere
I'm outtahere
You don't matter here.

Oooh, are you feeling the workplace anger there? Did it come the apparently-blind, aspiring fashion designer or the husky 44 year old copywriter with anger management issues?

Getting the hang of this? Here's another.

C.

Are you feelin' me?
Or you dealing' me?
It don't figure,
my n*gga,
You feelin' my trigga?
Done my time at Rikers,
with bars as thick as ficas,
Not going back,
no way no how.
I like my beef from a Grade A Kobe cow.

That one was tricky. Does it come from the man who famously cut off Taylor Swift? Or is the handiwork of the henpecked husband who brings home the wrong trash bags?

D.

Ay gurl.
Ay gurl.
Wassup gurl?
Whatcha doing Ye?

Think you got it?
Good.

Now without using The Goggle, which of the two of the aforementioned lyrical snippets were written by the man who said, "I am a proud non-reader of books."

And which lyrics were written by Kanye West.


Leave your answers in the comment section. Winners will receive an autographed copy  of my upcoming book.

Recently, the literary world was set all a twitter.

It was announced that author Harper Lee was about to publish another book. I'm ashamed to admit it, but I had never taken the time to read her classic, To Kill A Mockingbird.

This should come as no surprise to readers of this blog, who know that I may be the most poorly-read writer on the planet. I'm doing my best to correct this. And, upon the advice of my friend George, have recently discovered the talents of Joseph Mitchell.

I'm also making my way through some David Sedaris.

But there are so many good writers, real writers, that it's hard to know where to start. Plus, there's this nagging, time-eating business of making a living and penning all sorts of sordid corporate poetry (anthems and manifestos) to keep food on my table.

In any case I made it a point to pick up Harper Lee's seminal work and was hugely disappointed.

Allow me to elaborate.

Two weeks ago, I was awakened by the sound of a bird (I had not determined its breed yet) who set up shop in the Eucalyptus tree right outside my bedroom window. He started singing at 3:27 AM.

And he NEVER stopped.
Not once.

I came out of the shower, he was still going at it.
I poured a cup of coffee, he was still singing.
I came home from work that night, and this nuclear-powered Energizer bunny of a bird was still chirping away.

The next night, I did not fare any better. At 1:30 AM I grabbed the long aluminum pole thingamajig that I use to open the skylight in my house, ran out side and started slapping the tree. He flew away and came back five minutes later.

Five and half minutes later he was singing.

I ran outside again, clad only in my tight whities -- a la Walter White (pictured above) -- and grabbed a bag of my Kingsford Match Light Instant Charcoal Briquets from my garage. There I stood, illuminated only by the Malibu lights in my garden, throwing these coal nuggets at the highest branches of the tree. Hoping not only to scare the bugger away, but also for a direct shot to the noggin.

I'm an animal lover but this bastard has kept me awake for a fortnight.

Naturally, I turned to the Internet to investigate further. Turns out, I have a bonafide mockingbird in my tree.





I discovered that it is a male mockingbird, in search of a mate.

And like its human brethren, will go to great lengths to "satisfy the urge." Research indicates the mockingbird will continue for weeks, months if necessary, to sing and sing and sing and sing. Until he gets his nut. Or until I call a Realtor.

Whichever comes first.

And that's what drove me to the bookstore. You can imagine my surprise to find that Harper Lee's, "To Kill a Mockingbird" was a tale of racial persecution in the South and not an instruction manual for the disposal of aviary pests.

This is why I don't read more often. Authors are too fond of their own cleverness. And subtext. And symbolism. And obfuscation.

I don't like obfuscation.
Particularly when I'm running on such little shut-eye.

I don't know how it worked out this way, it might have something to do with the long hours I've been putting in lately, but today's post, like this week's previous three, is also about Advertising.

In other words, I lost an opportunity to do an entire Theme Week, which always bumps up my pitiful web traffic ratings.

Enough of my so-called problems.

Our business is chock full of Bullshit.
Mountains of it.
If you clumped it all together it would be bigger than Pluto and earn the designation of a true planet.

As you are reading this, ambitious Assistant Account Executives are building gator boards about the automotive buying habits of 25-35 year old Active Persuasive Innovators earning $65,000-$83,000 and attending religious institutions 5-6 times a year.

150-page decks are being assembled detailing the contrasting social media habits of millennial fisherman in Portland, Maine and Portland, Oregon.

And Cambridge-schooled ex-pat planners are in heated battles with reluctant clients who just don't get the color orange. And its relevance in today's saturated media marketplace.

Oh, you think I'm guilty of hyperbole?

Not long ago, the good folks at PepsiCo spent a million dollars, that's right, a million dollars to have their logo redesigned by the professionals at the Arnell Group, a firm of craftsmen and craftswomen with the highest standards of integrity.

SFX: COUGH

You may be saying to yourself, that's a lot of money to change one red, white and blue beachball into another red, white and blue beachball. But chances are you haven't read the research, you haven't seen the findings, and you haven't seen all the complex emotions, decisions and quantum physics that go into choosing a can of brown, fizzy water.

Exhibit A:



Poor Archimedes, if only he had lived long enough to see how his rigorous work and tireless hours sketching vectors and constructing congruent angles had been successfully applied to Aisle 5 at the ShopRite Supermarket.

I'm sure this would have blown wind up his toga.


Symmetrical Energy Fields? Are you fucking kidding me? I thought those were only found in the nooks and craggy caverns outside Sedona, Arizona, the home of sage-burning, hippy dippy crystal worshippers.

You can view the entire and exhaustive document here . And I recommend you do.

It's easy to make the mistake of thinking you know what you need to know about the business of advertising. Until you spend some time with something this amazing in its scope and detail. It is only then that you discover for every answer there are a million more questions.

Like,  "I'm in the same business as these flim-flammers? What the hell have I done with my life?"
Posted by Rich Siegel      at 6:00 AM   Reactions:     2 comments:   Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest

As you can see it appears Brian Williams has claimed credit for writing and designing an old billboard John Shirley and I did way back when.

As I was trying to find a picture that could be appropriately doctored, I ran across a 1998 article in Ad Age magazine: Ten Reasons Why TBWA/Chiat/Day is Creativity's Agency of the Year .

I'm a self-admitted narcissist. I'm usually pretty good at sniffing out digital ink, particularly when it mentions my name. As a freelancer fighting the debilitating effects of age and the uncontrollable growth of ear hair, I have to be.

But, I had never seen this article before.

Which is probably a good thing, because now I need a 5 gallon tub of lube just to get my head through the front door of my house.

If you have a copy of Bruce Springsteen's Born in the USA album, now would be a good time to cue up "Glory Days."

You may not be able to access the article because of Ad Age's crazy subscription policy, they literally want people to pay for the privilege of reading. What kind of nonsense is that? Writers don't need money.

So I've taken the liberty of excerpting the best parts for you.


I get called a lot of names.

Asshole.
Douchebag.
Self Righteous Prick.

And that's just from my immediate family. But I don't think there's any higher honor than being dubbed a "solid veteran." Solid is a great compliment. It indicates, for better or for worse, that I am dependable, stalwart and worthy of trust. That's gold for a freelancer. Hell, I might even add that to my linkedin page.

Ad Age also said this:


I'm not sure we changed the network approach to advertising. Or anything else for that matter.

They still churn out the same mindless bullshit. And they're still stuck in their old ways. But considering all the instances in this business where I was unfairly denied credit, I'll take it where I can get it.

Thank you very much.

Of course all good things come to an end. And we, Chiat, did not follow up the glory of 1997 and 1998 with a repeat performance in 1999. The beginnings of a dynasty ended.

What happened, you might ask?

I don't know. Perhaps I'll crack open up a new bottle of Beefeaters Gin, some lemon juice, some simple syrup and a tall glass of ice and think about it.


Last week, I was working on a television spot for an unnamed client and an unnamed agency. I can't say anything more about it because of NDA's and such. And frankly, it's not important.

The spot was retail in nature.

I'm at a point in my career when I'm asked to do a great deal of retail. That might have bothered me in the past, it doesn't bother me now.

I'm not above writing anything. Mostly because I'm writing endless checks to the University of Washington. And next year, probably the University of Colorado as well.

"Oh and Daddy I need $120 to buy a new digital spectrographic confibulator for Chem class."

Since it was a retail spot, I thought why not cart out Fiddy Cent as a spokesperson. Hell, his name practically screams RETAIL.

Not knowing much about the man from South Jamaica, Queens, a short bike ride away from Flushing, where I went to elementary school, I decided to check out Fiddy online.

Holy Shit, what a potty mouth!

I can't understand a word he says when he "sings" but his lyrics leave little to the imagination.

My lust on level 10
I'm tryin' to get in
I'll have you cumin down your candy walls
Get it wetter than Niagra Falls

That's from one of his love songs. Here's another:

I got half a mil deal with no diploma
Ice so blind it give your ass glaucoma

The imagery is a bit stretched, but the man can rhyme. And finally, there's this one:

She in the Gucci tights and Findi high heels
Baby wipes and cans of Infamil
Motor bike and grams of fish scale
It's a 9 to 5 niggas with no frills

No idea what that means, but it comes from a song titled "I Smell Pussy".

What's amazing is that I found all these snippets within seconds. I didn't have to cherry pick or do any digging. I simply went to a catalogue of his songs and found these so-called lyrics. Ok, the last piece I picked specifically because the title caught my eye. And my nose.

But the point stands.

His music is out there. And he is just one of what seems to be a million other rappers trying establish their street cred. So the airwaves are teeming with this bile about n*ggas, triggas, glocks and cocks.

Which makes it a little difficult for me to sit with a straight face and listen to Mr. or Ms. Client tell me they're not fond of a headline that starts with the word "don't."

"Maybe it's me, but it seems a little negative. We don't want to be negative."

By the way, the idea never made it past the junior, junior planner.

Years ago, I remember being told to tidy up my work area because a potential new client was coming in for a "chemistry check."

I don't know who HR is trying to fool, but a "chemistry check" is nothing more than a stall technique. It gives the agency financial guys time to run down the client's creditors and make sure that the
all-important revenue stream keeps on streaming.

In other words, if the check clears we have chemistry.

It also gives the bulbous, red-nosed CEO an opportunity to use the expensive executive conference room, break out the agency's limited set of real silverware and meet and greet the potential new client and their marketing staff.

It is at this point the said CEO can, during a laborious Powerpoint presentation, look across the room at the leggy assistant CMO and think to himself, "Yeah, I can bone her."

That comes under the heading of a "anatomy check."

Turns out we won the pitch and the first order of the day, sadly, was a team building exercise.

We gathered at the client's Thousand Oaks headquarters where the CMO, sporting a toupee that looked like it doubled as a carpet swatch, passed out little scraps of paper. We were then instructed to write down our favorite breakfast cereal, our favorite band and our favorite author.

To be honest, I don't remember what happened next, because 'team-building' or corporate 'ice-breaking' or 'positive self-esteem nurturing' or whatever the fuck you want to call it, is not my favorite activity.

Frankly, I'd rather have a prostate exam by a surly urologist with calloused hands and unclipped fingernails.

All of which should tell you more than enough about me, in case the 1200+ entries on this blog didn't suffice, and why I was so excited to stumble across these highly-cynical but deadly-accurate Demotivational Posters.



I like this one. This one is applicable after an hourlong briefing for an automotive sales event, an exercise in redundancy if there ever was one. The dealers want to move to some sheet metal. End of story. No more questions.


A lot of what passes for insight inside an ad agency isn't. Moms are busy. Dads are stressed. Teenagers watch TV on the Internet. Got it. Let's move on.


Not fond of Saccharin Susies. Probably not a surprise. It's easy for you to smile and be cheery and exude happiness like the day you were accepted into the Alpha Phi Sorority, you didn't spend the last 72 hours trying to crack a brand repositioning. And you don't have to spend the next 72 hours "exploring a different direction."

But hey Polly Pollyanna, thanks for bringing in the donuts. They're super delish.

There are 100 more of these posters online. I'm not going to dissect and comment on each and every one of them. Not because I'm lazy. I have a pot of coffee and a whole day off (my first in more than a month) to rifle through this corporate jackoffery.

But the other day, someone in a private email accused me of being a curmudgeon. And I don't want to lend any credence to that.

My East Coast Doppelgänger and fellow ad blogger, George Tannenbaum and I, decided we'd do something different today. We wrote guest columns for each other's blogs. You can find mine at adaged.com . And you can enjoy George's, who doesn't give himself nearly enough credit for being funny, right here. Oh and don't be ashamed if you have to look up some words in the dictionary, George is much more erudite than me.


Not long ago, Rich, Mr. Round Seventeen himself, and I decided we’d trade places for a day. I’d write a post for his blog—though I’m not nearly as funny as he, and he’d write a post for mine.

I should say at the outset that my friendship with Rich is an odd one. We’ve never met, never spoken. We’ve tried to get together whenever I am shooting in LA, but we’ve never made it work. Usually something to do with uxorial demands or the fact that I tend to fall asleep by 9:30 PM.

Despite that distance, Rich and I are friends. We’re both “men of a certain age,” members of the Tribe, and copywriters. We’ve both enjoyed fair-to-middling success in our careers. First on staff at notable agencies, and now on the occasionally ball-crushing, if lucrative, freelance circuit.

There are many areas in which I cannot compete with Rich. Like I said, I’m not as funny as he. And while I am a bulldog in many ways, he’ll hold onto a bone and shake it to death even more vigorously than I will.

I’d have given up on the exercise machine that he bought that can’t be put together. Chalked the money up as lost. Dealt with my wife’s imprecations.

I’d never have gotten started with Mantu, on Tuesday or any other day. I don’t have the time or the patience.

The one thing I do do—yes, Rich, I know I said do do—is go toe to toe with Time-Warner cable, the worst cable provider except for the one you have.

My internet, which is supposed to be high-speed but is low speed in the way that a Starbuck’s small coffee is a tall, goes out on average six times a year. Always without notice, always without a note or a phone call about when they expect it to be back.

Whenever it happens to me, I summon up whatever reserves I have and I call Time-Warner.

When I finally get a human, I unload a tale.

I was in the Mekong Delta. From nowhere came rocket fire and a battalion of Viet Cong. A buddy, just 20 feet from me had his legs blown off. I scurried ahead and dragged him to safety.

Then I got hit. Small arms. Then a mortar. Then more small arms. Then another mortar. It was like target practice for them.

I finally woke up in a field hospital. Was transferred when I had stabilized to Tokyo. I would live…but without my arms and legs.

Do you know what life is like with no arms, no legs and no internet? I ask. The internet is my connection to the world. It’s how I communicate, socialize, how I order food and entertain myself.

I need my internet restored.

At this point, the Time-Warner man is sobbing.

“When can you come to my apartment?” I plead.

“We can have someone out to your place Thursday.”

“Thursday? That’s four days from now. You can’t have someone sooner—I HAVE NO ARMS AND LEGS!”

Now, if I were Rich, I would start a campaign about this. I’d figure a way to get it into a book, or a screenplay, or something.

But I’m from New York.

My jib isn’t cut that way.

I prefer throwing bricks through plate glass. And slashing the tires of every Time-Warner truck I see.

Bastards.

This is not a good book.

It simply is not.

Mind you, I haven't read the Quran in its entirety, but I haven't read Mein Kampf and I know that's not a good book either.

Over the course of the past three weeks, I've seen this book used to justify the practice of grown men marrying 9 year olds girls.

I've seen this book used to justify throwing gay men off the roof of a building.

I've seen this book used to justify the beheading of two Japanese journalists.

I've seen this book used to justify the annihilation of an entire village of Nigerians.

And just recently, I've seen passages cited in this book used to justify the burning of a live human being, who for some unknown reason, was also a faithful follower of the same book.



Funny, I've heard of old Jews citing verse from the Talmud to send cold soup back to the kitchen but never anything about setting blasphemers on FIRE.

For some unexplainable reasons, our President, Howard Dean, John Kerry, Kareem Abdul Jabbar and other media pundits are working hard to have us believe that these barbarous acts have nothing to do with what's in this book.

That the individuals responsible for the murder and the mayhem are acting outside the confines of this book and have errantly misread its Scripture.

I don't buy that for a second.
But for the sake of argument, let's say I did.

Even if you were to separate the aforementioned extremism from Islam -- which sadly cannot be done -- the problems do not go away.

Just like the Old Testament (also not a good book) and the New Testament (not a fan of this one either), the Quran has a decidedly Neandarthal opinion of gay people. In fact, it's outright hostile.

The Quran also has some medieval ideas about women.

The Quran speaks quite unkindly about non-believers.

Has rotten notions about dhimmitude.

Forbids bacon -- for God knows what reason.

And the Holy Quran, the perfect word of Allah, singles out my people as descendants of Pigs and Apes. Moreover, the Hadith calls for the murder of my fellow Pigs and Apes.

"The stones and trees will O Muslims, O Abdullah, there is a Jew behind me, come and kill him"
--Sahih Muslim 41:6985

So you see, even if you were to do away with the stonings, the raping, the honor killings, the beheadings and the immolations, you're still left with pretty abhorrent beliefs.

In my book, and apparently in this one, even Moderate Islam is Radical Islam.

My wife and I don't fight a lot.

OK, last week we had a doozy and there was cursing, there was yelling and there was the dumping of the bowl of fresh pasta into the garbage disposal, but generally we don't fight that often.

At least not as often as my parents did. Nor, I'm told as often as her parents did.

Of course, when my youngest daughter leaves for college in September, and it's just the two of us, the battling may involve small arms and tactical nukes.

"How many times have I told you I like the plastic garbage bags with the red handles? The red handles, not the blue ones."

When we do fight, it's usually over stupid stuff.
Picking a restaurant is our personal Maginot Line.

You see we've eaten everywhere in Los Angeles. We know all the good places on the Westside. And can recite Yelp reviews word for word. So now, in what could be viewed as politically incorrect browsing, we turn to a new source of culinary expertise: Facebook.

Allow me to explain.

Let's say by some freakish accident my wife and I will agree that we want ramen. Well who knows ramen better than people in the Asian community.

And so I will start poking around the pages of friends who fit the profile. I have close to 1500 friends on Facebook, which I find odd because almost on a daily basis I give people reasons not to like me. And I know my wife will agree me on that.

Turns out I have a significant number of Asian Facebook buddies.

So the search never lasts long. Within seconds I will typically find a photo of a ramen bowl, accompanied by a picture of one or more people of Korean or Asian descent enjoying the ramen and if I'm lucky, a personal recommendation regarding the ramen.

"Get the triple spicy Tonkotsu with extra boiled eggs. And don't leave without trying the chicken katsu, it's just like the katsu my grandmother used to make."

That's the krakken.

By the way, this little trick works for all ethnicities. My Hispanic friends know the locations of all the good divey Mexican restaurants. I might even stumble upon a place that serves up good grub from El Salvador.

I can always count on my fellow Members of the Tribe to point me in the direction of the best pastrami and knishes.

And if I get hankering for Chicken Tikka Masala or some Himalayan Yak Stew, I simply comb through my list in search of a surname that would feel at home in the Mumbai White Pages.

Maybe you do the same thing.
Or maybe this is not something people speak of publicly.
But I did and it's done.

That reminds me, I love good soul food and BBQ,  I need to get some more black friends.


It was used in on the cover of National Lampoon with the headline, "If you don't buy this magazine we'll shoot this dog."

Intentionally provocative then, industry appropriate now.

By that I mean, it is Saturday morning as I write this blog. This is the fourth weekend in a row I am working. My current assignment requires me to be in the office so it's even more onerous. I haven't had a day off in a month.

Normally that would not bother me in the least. As a freelancer, I enjoy getting booked, solving an agency's problems, outsmarting today's crop of entitled kids and waiting by the mailbox for my fat paycheck.

But, for the last 30 or so odd days, I have been working with a gun to my head.

24 hour turnarounds.
Soft check ins.
Hard check ins.
Briefings.
Rebriefings.
Feedback.
More feedback.
And another check in, you know, just to take your temperature.

It would be one thing if this were the standard practice at one ad agency, but this is happening at every ad agency. All of them. This is what our industry has come to. And if the work from this year's Super Bowl was any indication, it's not a good thing.

I feel like my legs have been chopped off beneath me.
I want to be hugged by my daddy.
And I wish somebody would hold my head under water and drown me before the next check in.

I'm going to share a dirty little secret.

I do a lot of work for a small independent agency still located on Mid Wilshire. For the longest time we've had a standing unwritten agreement. They hire me for a day's worth of thinking on any given project. They don't have the budget for long term bookings.

So they will often give me a project and say, "put a day's worth of thinking against this and get back to us in a week."

Guess what, I don't give them a day's worth of thinking. In the course of a week I often give them more. I think about the assignment. I let the juices stew. I take the challenge with me into the shower, the pool and onto the 405. And a week later, I usually have something good to show for my time.

I win.
They win.
The client wins.

I've shared this video before and I'll share it again because it bears repeating and I like the idea of you walking around with the musical ear worm in your head.

This explains why instead of game-changing ideas, we keep getting clocks.

Last week, I relayed the events of a very surreal night and the strange disappearance of my wife that left us both standing squarely in the Twilight Zone.

Today, perhaps because we're still both a little shaken by the weirdness of that evening, I'm going to tear a few more pages from the book of the paranormal.

This story begins many years ago.

With a fresh sheepskin from Syracuse University in my hand and no apparent job offers or plans in my future, I snatched up a $99 one way airline ticket from Newark, NJ to Los Angeles, CA.

Didn't know a soul here.
Hadn't even booked a hotel room.
I simply got off the plane at LAX, hopped a bus towards UCLA and dragged a 40 lbs. duffel bag up and down Gayley Ave. hoping to rent a room from one of the frat houses.

I detested frat boys but knew the houses rented out rooms to boarders for the summer. I got lucky and landed a large room at a house near Westwood Village, Alpha Epsilon Gamma Who Gives A Fuck.

The house quickly filled up with guys who, like myself had come from all areas of the country.

There was Bruce, an aspiring actor from NYC. He had an acerbic tone and we made quick friends.

Marshall, a blond-haired, blue-eyed Jew from Colorado who looked like the unlikely poster boy for the How To Build the Master Race Manual. We never saw too much of Marshall, he was always getting laid.

There was Adam from Chicago, a sax-playing nerd who seemed happy to hanging around guys who weren't bullying him for the first time in his life.

And there was Justin Weiner. He had the thickest stutter I've ever heard. Words turned into sentences. Sentences turned into paragraphs. And paragraphs…I never stuck around long enough to see how those ended.

Justin made it known he had appeared in PlayGirl magazine. He also made it a point to parade around the house in the nude to show off his appp-pppp--pppp-endage. None of us were impressed. In fact, we gave him a new middle name, Justin Ordinary Weiner.

There was also a strange guy named Roy.

He lived up on the third floor, in a single room. He came from Wyoming or Montana, one of the sparsely populated square states now inhabited by open carry gun nuts and Illuminati conspiracists.

Roy never drank beer with us. Never smoked dope with us. Never went into Westwood Village to scarf up half eaten pizzas left on the tray at Jack Straw Pizza. There's an art to living cheaply.

Roy, a stocky, barrel chested, crew cut fireplug of a man, often stood on the corner somewhere and stared off into the distance. If ever I met someone with a Ted Kazinsky/John Gacey/Sam Berkowitz demeanor it was Roy.

The summer at that frat house remains one of the best in my life. My neck muscles are still aching from laughing so hard. Sadly, I've lost touch with all the guys who were part of that colorful adventure.

All but one.

A year after that memorable summer I was driving to job as an Assistant Kitchen Manager and saw Roy standing at the corner of Sawtelle and Santa Monica Blvd.

Three years later, while going to the movies with my girlfriend at the mall in Century City, I saw Roy leaning against street lamp.

Five years later I saw him again while running on San Vicente Blvd.

Los Angeles is a huge city and I can go years without running into friends or a familiar face, but like the Hitchhiker in Rod Sterling's Twilight Zone, Roy keeps on popping up.

I know this all sounds strange, but I would swear on a stack of Bibles/Koran/or Torah scrolls, that this phenomena is completely true.

I haven't seen him in awhile and maybe his decades-long stalking is about to reach its conclusion. If something should ever happen to me please tell the police to search for Roy from Wyoming. A husky, crew-cut guy with a thousand yard stare.

Oh and he's about the same age as me, 44.

Can't remember where you left your car keys?

Is the Kale Emporium all out of Kale?

Or maybe you returned from the supermarket with the wrong brand of trash bags, the ones your wife specifically instructed you not to buy?

Don't blame it on Islamic terrorists or that crappy Open Office Plan foisted on you by the enlightened thinkers in the finance department, as I have been known to do.

It could be, so I'm told by people with a PhD. in Astrology, that it's due to Mercury entering Retrograde.

That's right, these little anomalies, these behavioral miscues, these something-is-just-not-right moments could be the result of the yearly wobbling rotation of a tiny planet that's only 48 million miles away from Planet Earth.

Living in a house with three women I'm well aware of the subtle and sometimes ugly mood changes brought about by the position of the moon and the lunar gravitational shifts it can produce.

But I was quite astonished by the encyclopedic information that has been amassed regarding this celestial phenomena. Scholarly data from Palm Readers, Horoscope Authors and Tarot Card Interpreters have all weighed in on Mercury in Retrograde.

Years ago, I seriously considered getting a Medical Alerts bracelet. Something to the effect of: Please pardon the wearer of this bracelet he has Tourette's Syndrome. Then, in the likely event of a blow up at work wherein I might let loose a flurry of some not-so-well-chosen words:

"Why would we do that, you witless clod of client douchebaggery?"

I could always blame it on the Tourette's.
I'd simply point out the bracelet and all would be forgiven.

In retrospect that seems so childish.

Now that I've got this Mercury in Retrograde in my back pocket, I'm good to go.

"Sorry about that temperamental outburst. And I probably shouldn't have questioned your "imbecilic" career choice, Mr. Chief Marketing Officer. But if you'd step up to this telescope I'd like to show you what's going 48 Million miles away."

Last year at this time, anticipation was building for the Olympics in Sochi, Russia.

This was a heaven-sent birthday present to someone like me, who likes to poke fun of the Motherland.

Also as a second generation American who is from considerable Russian descent, there's nothing I like better than to have a laugh at the anti-Semitic, vodka-swilling dumbkoffs who were at one time were our mortal political enemies.

Russia, like North Korea, is the photographic gift that keeps giving.

So you can imagine my orgasmic delight when just a few days ago, a Facebook friend put up a link to a collection of photos from a Russian dating site. If you're not quivering now, take a deep breath, soon you will be.

The 200 lbs. female (in the red dress) laying next to the 300 lbs. Baltic Blue Gruper was one of my favorites. I'm pretty sure her Saturday Night Dance Card filled up quite quickly.

This came from one eager suitor:

"First, I shall take you to the smelt farm, where we will dine and take in the aroma of millions of smelt. Then, Dashka if I may call you that, we will push my 1957 Volga (needs a new carburetor) to a little club I know near the Barvika River. We will drink. We will dance. And I will get my front teeth knocked out in bar fight to protect your honor. Because that is how lovely you look to me."

Oh God Rich, I can hear you saying through the Interwebs, please share more of these pictures.

Please.


That's not just any axe.

That's a family heirloom, passed down to her from her great, great grandfather, Grigori, a Kossack who made a name for himself pillaging schtettles and bringing home booty from the huts of old Jews. Klavdiya might consider using the trusty weapon for something other than cutting flowers. Track down some feral pigs or a slow-moving moose.

Eat something for god's sake.



There's an old maxim that women love a man with a sense of humor. From my single years, I know this to be true and can attest that in my youth scores of women simply threw themselves at me. I'm not so sure about the converse. Dressing up as a steer or a cow, there's some gender issues going on here, doesn't ring my horny bell. Maybe it works for Russian guys, who knows.

Also, what's with the flower pot on the couch?

And then there's this.


I've been married a long time, and admittedly unfamiliar with the process of Internet dating, but I am very confused about the multiple women in one picture motif. How would a potential soul mate  respond to an ad like that?

"Hello I am Petrov. I am most interested in the girl wrapped in the Persian Rug. No, not the Persian rug with the circle patterns. The Persian Rug with the star shapes. The one that is tied to the Birch tree."

If I were a prick and wanted to see my web traffic soar tomorrow as I am sure it will today, I could promise to put up the link to SIXTY THREE more of these classic Cyrillic beauties on Wednesday's R17 post. But despite what some people say, I am not a prick.

Enjoy.

You're welcome.


I learned a lot about life working at Chiat/Day.

I learned about craft.
I learned about commitment.
I learned about unbridled passion.
I learned, or stole from other creatives, how to twist narratives and dig for the unexpected.
I learned about the incredible power generated by a group of talented people all working towards the same goal.

Later, I also came to learn about office politics.
The magical ascension of incompetence™.
And as Jay Chiat presciently predicted, how Creativity can be corrupted when supplanted by the blind pursuit of money.

But the one lesson I learned, perhaps the most important one, came to me in my first week at the old warehouse at 320 Main Street. A turn of phrase that might have been uttered by a senior creative, or more likely, one of the wily broadcast producers on staff.

"It is better to beg for forgiveness than ask for permission."

I love this axiom and wish more people would put it to use.

In essence, it's a giant middle finger to those in power, or presume to be in power, and are fond of saying, "No."

It's a way of saying, I will do this the way I want to do this and it will be infinitely better than if I do this the way you want me to do this.

It stems from the philosophy, rightly or wrongly, that we, the art directors and the copywriters who have actually concepted, written and produced award-winning advertising might know a little something more than those who have never created or produced anything, with the exception of an Excel spreadsheet or a planning brief.

"Tone should be friendly, human and convey strong sense of industry innovation and thought leadership."

I still employ this guiding principle. But sadly don't see it evidenced in much of what goes on in today's creative departments.

We need to check with account people.
We need to run this by the CD.
We need to cross off all the boxes on this list of deliverables and go over the 249 page deck once more with a fine-tooth beard comb.

I realize that once again I've drifted into headstrong, cranky 44 year old man speak. I've charged ahead without giving too much thought to what I've said or even the consequences. And I hate that I've become the online embodiment of "get off my lawn."

To which I can only say, "I'm sorry."



If you're like me, and you should thank your lucky stars you're not, you get tired of listening to me.

Hell, I reread this week's postings and I'm simply bored to death.

So I'm going to assume you need a respite. I know I do.

Today we're going very visual.

The map above shows Culver City. The astute among you will notice the oval like shape of the streets that comprise Carlson Park, my neighborhood, which at one time was a horse track, which later morphed into a racing car track with the arrival of the horseless carriages.

It all worked out quite well, except for the section I've circled. Somehow, like the idiots who planned our Metro Line without stops at LAX or Dodger stadium, someone forgot to pave Farragut Drive all the way through.

The passageway is simply an alley covered by a steel gauge fence.


Until recently this passageway was hardly noteworthy. But now it is literally and figuratively, quite noteworthy. Since one or several of the neighbors began hanging these very simple and iconic notes.

Here are but a few:









There were twenty more. And the attraction is gathering quite a bit of foot traffic.

You might be wondering do I have a favorite?
I do.

It came from the peanut gallery, someone who felt the need to add on to someone else's note about the collection.


I like a little sour with my sweet.

Thank you Satan.

It's the part of the business I'll never get used to.

I'm not talking about the rejection. We all face rejection, copywriters and art directors perhaps more so than others.

I'm talking about the selection. More specifically, the selection of other ideas over and above the ones my partner and I put on the table.

I know I run the risk of appearing immodest and I'm going to be very thoughtful in the words I choose.

But, seriously, what the FUCK!

You sank 3/4 of a million dollars of precious production money, fought off countless focus groups and twisted the arm of the CMO, the CIO and the CEO, to run that?

They trained an elephant to paint pictures, maybe he's available to work on Phase 2?

You'd think by this middle to late stage of my career I'd be over all this. That, as a freelancer I could simply brush it all off, look at the deposits in my bank account and say, "at least the check cleared."

But the Tom Brady in me can't.

I'm simply too competitive.

Even at 44 I have a raging fire in my belly. Sometimes that fire migrates to my lower intestine. And sometimes it works its way up to my esophagus in the form of heartburn. The point is, the fire is still there and it's not going away until they plant me in the ground and I come back as a poison oak.

That doesn't mean I have to win every creative shootout. And hoot and holler in an obnoxious victory dance. And rub it in the face of my younger, hipper-than-thou colleagues who wanted to do something with hashtags and Will I Am.

Who am I kidding, that's exactly what it means.

I don't know how to make that go away.
Or if I should even try.

Maybe I'll just switch from dark roast coffee to something in the light-to medium range?
That's a start.

Last week I convinced my wife to go Alejo's Italian Restaurant on Lincoln Blvd.

We used to frequent the place quite often, as the bread is fresh baked and there's never a long wait to get a table. My two most important criteria for picking a restaurant in Los Angeles.

However, Alejo's has fallen out of favor recently, its frumpy dining room no longer as appetizing as it once was when my wife and I were escorting two screaming toddlers.

And yet, through the power of persuasion and some well-honed marital passive aggressiveness, I was able to convince my wife to go back to Alejo's. Their chopped salad is second to none. And this is what a successful marriage is all about. Compromise. Give and take.

She agrees to cheap Italian food.
I agree to give up a weekend to shop for new an inordinately-expensive living room furniture.

On the way to the restaurant, it was raining. Not newsworthy in any other part of the country, but here in Southern California I've seen more water coming out of my neighbor's hose, in order to wash his two white trash monster trucks, than I've seen fall from the sky.

Hugging the median of Jefferson Blvd., I slowed down because the woman in the Honda Civic in front of me appeared to be making a left turn.

But then, she wasn't.

At 50+ mph the car veered left and then, a split second later, veered right. She missed the road sign by a centimeter. And then, in the middle of fast moving traffic she slammed on the brakes and parked the car in the fast lane. The door swung open and the driver leapt from the car, hunched over and appeared to be returning her lunch to Mother Earth.

I stopped too. I had no other option.

And before I could look in my rearview mirror for oncoming traffic, my wife had jumped out of the car and ran to assist Mrs. Mario Andretti.

I've never needed hazard lights before and despite the superb Japanese ergonomic design on my old Lexus, could not locate my flashers. So I quickly skedaddled over to the right. And because there is no shoulder on Jefferson Blvd., I had to find the nearest street to turn off and park the car. About 1/4 mile away.

I ran through the uneven sidewalks, which is more like a lunar landscape thanks to the roots of Chinese Elm trees bursting through the pavement. And I caught a mouthful of dirty rainwater when a truck rolled by and tore through a puddle that would not be there 364 other days of the year.

When I reached the spot where my wife was, she wasn't.

And neither was the Honda Civic.

I yelled her name in the pouring rain.


She was gone.

I ran back to my car. Called her cell phone. And then I heard the ringing of her cell phone in her purse, which was still in the driver's seat of my car.

I drove back to the scene of the near accident and couldn't find her. Circled around again, in this stretch that had no streetlights, and still couldn't find her. Without her phone, she couldn't find me.

It was all playing out like a bad Jeff Bridges movie.

What if she's gone?
What if Vomiting Lady kidnaped her?
What if I never see my wife again?

Then I started thinking.

What picture should I upload for my new JDate profile?
What about Tinder?
Should I wear a baseball cap to conceal my baldness?

A thousand questions flooded my brain.

After circling round and round again, I finally spotted her near the parking lot of Home Depot. She was drenched. And crying. And very upset with the whole incident.

When we arrived at Alejo's my wife explained how the woman had a panic attack and was temporarily blinded. Thankfully, Debbie, my first responder, was there to talk her down from the ledge.

We ordered wine and beer and enjoyed the classic Alejo's chopped salad.

It'll probably be the last time I'll ever get to eat there again

A week from today, the country will be talking about the Big Super Bowl.

And in my sad circle, friends and colleagues will be talking about the Big Super Bowl spots.

Not to crush anybody's spirit, but we'll be the only ones talking about the advertising come next Monday. Our collective naval-gazing has reached epic proportions. And make no mistake, I'm as guilty, if not guiltier, than most.

Of course some smart advertisers are not waiting a week. They'd like you to start forgetting about their marketing extravaganza right this second.

They've labored months, sacrificed weekends and played countless games of Scrabble or Candy Crush during production status meetings, why waste all that human capital on one showing during a football game everyone is too drunk to remember?

So, they've pre-released their spots.

And shot their wad before the big game.

It's better, they'll argue, because all the non-existent buzz they've deluded themselves into believing, can begin earlier. People will have an opportunity to view their content more often. And, and this is a big deal, they can squeeze another extra 100 likes on the youtube channel.

If only I had employed such dexterous logic during my dating days when "getting out to an early start" was not embraced with such enthusiasm.

Call me Old School, but this grizzled 44 year old isn't buying it.

The idea of the Super Bowl spot is to reach through the flat screen TV, stop people in the middle of their Tostitos snack-sharing community moments™, and crack open their heads with 60 seconds of razzle dazzle that will have fans saying:

"That was fucking great. Why can't they make movies as good as they make the commercials?"

For those of you too young to remember, that's the way it was when Apple's 1984 spot first aired.

Or Monster.com's "When I Grow Up".

Or Miller Lite's "Evil Beaver."

And even more recently, Dodge's "God Made a Farmer."

But now, in the service of social media and the chase for Likes and ReTweets, we've taken the element of surprise out of the hands of art directors and copywriters. It goes right in the dust bin. And sits next to long copy, wit, and intelligence; tools that are no longer useful in today's world of advertising.

If there's any buzz going on this week it's being generated by disgruntled creatives still upset with the redesign of the AgencySpy.com website or it's young media planners gathered round their supervisor's cubicle…

"Hit the refresh button, see if we reached 7500 views yet."

One of the great things about growing up in advertising is the fact that I never grew up.

Never had to.

I go (go, being relative, as it often means coming downstairs and stepping into my den) to work wearing shorts, a T-shirt and flip flops. I often don't shave, sometimes don't shower. And still have the sleep patterns of a teenager.

It can safely be said that thirty years later, this 14 year old is still a 14 year old.

So it only follows that like many adolescents, I am still amused by ca-ca jokes. Here, we see leaders of the free world during their "Exit interviews with Mr. Brown."

If I had the wherewithal, I'd magnify these images, frame them and place them above the mantelpiece in the living room. Of course my wife might have something to say in the matter. She's a little picky about home decorations. And even home supplies.

She recently chewed me out for bringing home the wrong trash bags for the bucket underneath the sink. True story.

I'm not sure my choice of plastic was that bad. Or if it was the hormones. The Estrogen guessing game never seems to end.

In any case, I'll probably get chewed out again for bringing up the tale and going public with it.

It goes without saying, especially now, that this Scatsterpiece is not up above the fireplace.

And by the associative law of mathematics, neither is this one:


But never let it be said that I don't have an appreciation for fine art.

I'm a whore.

Instead of pursuing a career writing movies, television or even books, I sold out, and offered my limited ability to string together words to the highest bidder.

I'm the bought-and-paid-for property of the Fortune 500.

A professional Call-To-Action Girl.

As such and as a freelancer for nearly a dozen years, I've learned to scoop up as many work assignments as the ink cartridges in my HP 6700 will allow.

Recently, while combing through my Junk mail file, I came across this from Seka Marianna:



I don't read French, but I'm smart enough to recognize words like "Project". And since I know there are ways to avoid paying taxes on overseas assignments, I responded to her inquiry with an inquiry of my own.

It turns out it was not the opportunity I had assumed. Seka, and how could I not respond to a woman who shares the name with one of the greatest porn stars of the modern era, was doing a little Internet phishing.


For a good laugh, I urge you to enlarge the picture and enjoy her "sales pitch."

It's clear that English is not her first language.
Or her second.
Or even her third.
My favorite line reads:

"What good still remain in the box that is already known cure by which the grass is worn through being constantly trampled?"

If I've said that once I've said that 1000 times.
It's right out of Howard Gossage Direct Response 101.

Turns out Seka, if that is her name or even if that is even her picture (see above), has inherited a large sum of money from her father and is looking to make real estate investments here in the United States.

Of the 330 million Americans she has wisely chosen me to assist her in that endeavor. I'm a longtime Toilets & Tenants Man.

As it turns out, 2015 has started off with a bang. And right now my plate is full.

Otherwise, Miss Seka Marianna, I would pursue you and your "real estate project" with vigor.

Your mangled English, your inability to spot the reverse scam, and your partially-correct assumption that middle-aged married men are financially susceptible when tempted by the allure of a younger, exotic women, would all be fodder for my next book.

A follow up to Tuesdays with Mantu , entitled:

Saturdays with Seka,
How I Duped the Duplex Queen of Senegal.

I listen to feedback.

I take criticism.

And I act accordingly, responding with the appropriate adjustments and necessary tweaks to make things right.

I'm not talking about when I was a staff copywriter, I was a holy terror then.
No, I'm referring to how I go about the daily running of R17.

I know, for instance, that readers in general prefer I not talk about religion, international politics, and the machinations of the Islamic Fascist Movement. And so, I make a conscious effort not to dwell on those areas, though I could easily go off on that everyday until the next Ramadan.

I also know that readers enjoy it when I take the pointy pen in my hand and direct it at advertising. There's an insatiable bloodlust about our beloved industry. And I do my best to nurture that beast.

If only the good people at AgencySpy   would as well.

Recently, they re-skinned their website in order to please their new corporate masters. They tore a page from the 2003 Interface Best Practices Playbook and fixed something that wasn't broken. The results are less than pleasing.

The new agencyspy.com, how can I put this diplomatically, sucks.

And the readers, never short on opinions or clever ways to voice their displeasure, let them know it. So much so that AgencySpy had to run TWO pieces explaining the incomprehensible design changes. And pleading with their core audience of scarf wearing art directors, beard bauble bearing copywriters, and obfuscating overpaid planners, not to leave the fold.

Good luck with that.

AgencySpy, the site we all hate to love has also become the site we love to hate. I suspect their dwindling readership will dwindle even more.

Maybe that will be good news for ad bloggers like myself. And George Tannenbaum's Adaged.
And Adscam.
And Rotation and Balance.
And Ad Contrarian.

Grumpy old independent guys who are not afraid to take down the digital ninjas, the "storytellers", the Chief Engagement and Activation Officers, and the penny-pinching, picnic table architects who promise to usher in a new age of collaboration and optimal group ideation with their open space jackoffery.

Give me an office where I can speak freely with my doctor about my swollen testicles and swan-diving levels of testosterone, or give me my walking papers.

Well, you can take this to the bank: RoundSeveneteen will remain your untainted source of brutal honesty. We will not yield in our relentless exposition of holding-company corporate bullshit.

There will be no cloogy website redesign or any editorial lowering of the perpetual flame of discontent.

You know, unless Adweek comes sniffing around and offers me enough money so I don't end up in a dirty nursing home.

Then all bets are off.

Today's post will be intentionally light as I know half my audience is not at the office reading RoundSeventeen and actively putting off any meaningful work. That is if you can call advertising meaningful.

The other half of my audience is out shopping.

Celebrating the man who furthered the cause of racial equality in this country by snatching up throw pillows, now discounted up to 33%. Because, in the words of Dr. King, and I'm paraphrasing here, "we should not judge a man or woman by their color of their skin but by the symmetry and color coordination of their bedding linens."

Also, wasn't it less than a month ago that we were soothing our inner savage retail beasts for the glory of Christ the King?

Let me pivot 180 degrees and get to today's point, if one were to call it that.

Many people on Facebook, or Twitter, or Instagram, or even Brewster, a new social media outlet that contacted me this morning, are fond of declaring their undying love of their dogs.

And I get it. I love my dog Nellie.

The thought of my 12 year old Shepherd/Retriever/ mutt being on borrowed time can make me well up with tears.

But apart from the licking, kissing and tail wagging one normally expects, how many of you devoted dog folks have seen a manifestation of your pet's unconditional love?

Over Christmas vacation, my family and I went to New Orleans. We did not kennel Nellie as she has gotten too old for all that commotion. So knowing that she'd be more comfortable at home, we asked the neighbor's daughter to stop by feed Nellie, take her for walks and provide some companionship.

Even though she received the best care, as we can see through the magic of Dropcam , Nellie missed her Alpha dog -- me. By the way, I've never seen her do anything like this in real life.

So how much did she miss me? Well, let's go to the videotape.





That much.

I am offended.

I'm offended that roughly 1/4 of the planet's population can take offense at a crappy cartoon but sees nothing wrong with a 41 year old man marrying a 9 year old girl.

I'm offended that people have abandoned rational thought, logic and self determination for fairy tales.

I'm offended that pork products, including spicy andouille sausage, baby back ribs and thick applewood center cut bacon have been deemed inedible.

I'm offended by the concept of presumptive conquest, that is, in the future the entire world will submit to the laws of the Caliphate and live by Sharia.

I'm offended by the twisted notion of honor and that any woman displaying sexual desire should be pelted to death with baseball-size rocks.

I'm offended that so many are committed to such a dogmatic belief system. A system so fragile that anyone threatening to leave, will leave as a corpse.

I'm offended by hijabs, burqas, and niqabs.

I'm offended by the term, kufar.

I'm offended that 75 years after the Holocaust there is a systemic, state-sanctioned persecution of homosexuals and vitriolic widespread hatred of Jews.

I'm offended that 750 million people, mothers, wives, sisters and daughters, are seen as 2nd class citizens. Or worse, property. When in reality they are our better half; reasoned, intelligent and not given to fantasy football, dick-wagging and countless hours playing Call of Duty.

I'm offended by the frothing at the mouth and the endless shouts of Allah Akbar. If God was Great human beings would not be killing other human beings for drawing cartoons.

I'm offended by a vengeful God who delights in the sight of spilt blood.

I'm offended by weak-kneed liberal progressives who have no problem calling out Christian intolerance, and rightly so, but go all limp when it comes to confronting the ugly ideologies coming from Mecca.

I'm offended by political correctness, Ben Affleck and naive co-existers.

I'm offended.

And now I'm hungry, so I'm going to make some breakfast, read the newspaper and not run into the street with an automatic weapon.

See how that works?

I'm a full disclosure kind of guy.

I say things I probably shouldn't say.
I wear my true feelings like an overly-worn fleece.
And I don't lie very well.

All of which explain why I did not ascend very high on the corporate ladder.

In that spirit, I'm going tell you what I did last week. Something I hadn't done since faking my way through Freshmen English course in college.

I waked and baked.

My wife was at work.
My daughter was at school.
My plate was clean.
And I wanted to get going on the short stories I've been writing.

So, after my morning shower and some considerable thought, I ventured out to the garage, found my little one hit bowl, and fired up a tiny bit of medical marijuana that had been "prescribed" to me to "manage" the chronic pain from Plantar Fasciitis. Then I slipped on my Bose QC-15 noise canceling headphones and opened up a new Word document.

For the next two and a half hours I clicked and clacked away at the keyboard in a way I hadn't done in all of my 44 years. I rarely stopped for Facebook interruptions or to answer any emails and just kept plowing through the story.

In all, I knocked out 1600-1700 words, many of them misspelled.

The next day, I read what I had written in my self-induced haze. I don't want to sound immodest, but it wasn't bad.

The prose was more colorful.
The structure, a little less structured.
But, and this is the important part, the funny was even funnier.

You might not know it from the 1200+ entries in this blog, and particularly not from this one, but I hold myself to a certain standard. And the goods produced by last week's Wake 'N Bake met those standards. And scarily, exceeded them.

Does this mean I'm going to go full Reefer and open up a revolving credit line at my local dispensary, cleverly called Total Health Care?

No, it does not.

It only means…oh shit I had a really snappy ending…now I can't remember…Look at the time, it's 4:19….I'm outtahere.

I know you're thinking, "Oh boy Rich is going to rip into advertising and skewer the entire industry with a scathing commentary about unequal wealth distribution, frozen salaries, unfair labor practices, bean counter management and the disintegration of our business at the hands of jargon-spewing, digital charlatans. He owes us that much after boring the hell out of us with last week's week long travelogue through Louisiana and Eastern Texas."

Sorry, that's not what today is about.

That fertile ground will be tilled at a later date. Maybe tomorrow.

Today, I am still boiling with anger and disgust over last week's Islamist attacks in Paris.

First off, I know there is a growing movement to disassociate the murders at the cartoonist office and at the Jewish supermarket from anything Islam. The apologists are quick to point out that the killing of innocent people has nothing to do with the religion.

That argument, of course, is uh, how shall I say this….Bullshit.

To the contrary, it has EVERYTHING to do with Islam. In the most exclusive sense of the word.

Or is it not apparent that Islam is not just a religion, it is a way of life, incorporated fully into culture, art and politics? There are madrassas throughout the Asian continent, posing as schools, that teach from one book and one book only -- The Holy Quran.

And the Quran and the Hadith are chock full of passages calling for the slaying of non-believers. I believe the term is Kuffar. And if I were so inclined I could cite many verses calling for the death of infidels. Many more calling for mine, as I am a member of the Tribe, a descendant of pigs and apes.

It was no mistake they were in a market selling Kosher goods. No mistake at all.

I understand the desire of moderate Muslims to distance themselves, semantically, from the acts of these  butchers, but if you were to remove religion from the equation, these Neanderthals would have no reason to be taking up arms against non-believers. No reason to hunt down Jews, slay innocent cartoonists or decimate entire Nigerian villages.

All of which begs the question, "If true Islam is not about terrorizing people, establishing a Caliphate, repressing rights, killing homosexuals, subjugating women and imposing Sharia law onto the Ummah (the entire world, Muslim and non-Muslim alike), what exactly is Islam about?"

There's no need for an apology. I know the actions of a few, perhaps a few thousand, extremists do not represent the beliefs of the 1.6 billion.

But there is a need for a PR campaign. And a reformation. An effort that reshapes the current narrative. Something that demonstrates Muslims are tolerant, modern, willing and able to co-exist with the 5.4 billion people on the planet who do not share their faith and have no obligation to abide by it.

By the way, the effort to marginalize these acts of terror and consign them to a bunch of crazy lone wolves is not helped when, a day after the Saudi government officially went on record to condemn the killing of the cartoonists in Paris, they proceeded to publicly flog a liberal Muslim blogger who dared to express his less-than-agreeable opinion of the faith.




Watching the young and old, moderates I'll assume, rushing to the flesh-searing festivities does make me very optimistic.

Lately there have been a spate of articles bemoaning the diminishing productivity of the Open Office Plan.

Harvard Business Review offered a scholarly debunking of this recent real estate phenomena.

The lofty New Yorker did a hatchet job on these new 21st century white collar sweatshops.

And as recently as last week, the Washington Post featured a whiny article about the Office Open Plan ,  written by, get this, an advertising copywriter. I'm sure they tried to reach me but my landline was out of order.

Or I might have been busy writing banner ads for new Comfort Catheters™.

"When you need to drain toxic fluids from your disfunctioning excretionary organs, think comfort, think Comfort Catheters™."

Listen honey and your fancy-pants article in the Washington Post, if I may use that pejorative, you're a little late to the party. I took down that windmill years ago. And have peed on the ashes many times since.

Headphones.
Lack of privacy.
False promises of increased collaboration.
Blah, blah, blah.
That ground has been covered. And though I'm fond (read: lazy) of rehashing old material, today I want to go in a new direction.

Last week, after a little smiling and dialing, I booked two new assignments. One is short term and will require my immediate attention. The other is longer term and will require pacing.

Both, however are telecommuting jobs, meaning neither will require me to sit in an office, where I would no doubt be seated at a picnic table across from a gaggle of girls talking about the jello shots they did over the weekend. Or hipster dudes, fond of keffiyehs and colored baubles in their beard.

In other words, I will be working at my house, where the coffee is always hot and the toilet is never occupied. Or I'll be at my buddy John's house, which is no more than 400 yards from the Pacific Ocean.


I'm pretty sure it doesn't get any better than that.

If I had my druthers, and why shouldn't I, I'd work like this all the time.

Which got me thinking. Which got me to the online coupon generator. (see above)

So here's the deal. Book me for a job, spare me the wasted time in your ungodly open office plan and allow me to work where I work best, and I will offer you a 10% discount on my usual day rate.

You save money. I get to walk my dog and go for a swim in the middle of the day. And the work is, I like to think, better, clearer and more sellable to your demanding clients.

It's a win-win-win situation.

Call now because these deals won't last forever. Certain restrictions may apply. Subject to approval. Offer not good in Tennessee.

And, with apologies to my Nashville-born buddy Greg, really, what is?

Sorry to indulge you in one more post about our Dixie trip but the truth is I need to refill my tank with venom before I can get back on the soapbox.

Also, by way of reminder, the two girls pictured above will both be in college this year so I will need to  increase my flow of revenue.

In other words book me now and book me often.

After our less-than-enjoyable visit to a slave plantation, we found ourselves just 30 minutes from Thibodeax, LA, where a little more than a dozen years ago we shot one of the scenes for Home Movie .

Though my oldest was feeling under the weather (mononucleosis) we decided to swing by Zam's Swamp Tour for a visit.

Glad we did.

Zam's was run by Wild Bill, who sadly passed away last year. But his wife and his sister remembered me and the great time we had shooting the film. She wrangled Wild Bill's nephew, Zee Zee, in the black hat and wife beater, to give us the tour of the grounds.

This is way out in the bayou and they don't get many visitors out there, so ZZ gave us the royal treatment.

We saw the houseboat, now docked along the shore, where Wild Bill once lived full time.


And the girls got to hold snakes, chickens and baby alligators. At one point ZZ climbed into a penned off area, grabbed a huge stick and started poking a 14-footer that seemed less alligator and more dinosaur.

I'm sure his taunting of this massive reptile did not comply with OSHA regulations. Then again, I'm not sure the last OSHA regulator to visit Zams was not pushed into the feeding pit.

As we left, Wild Bill's wife asked if I had an extra copy of Home Movie. I didn't, but I went on Amazon.com to order them one. It was a small price to pay for such a great experience.

I hope the Fedex guy can get in and out of there without being eaten.

Yesterday, I promised a rant about the abhorrent condition of advertising.

I lied.

Today, I'm writing about our visit to Vacherie, Louisiana, where we got to see what slave life was like at the Oak Alley Plantation.

You can draw your own parallels.

My wife noticed the brochures for the plantation, and twenty others just like it, in the lobby of the hotel.  It was about an hour drive from New Orleans and we thought it would be a good idea to get out of the city and learn more about about our country's troubled past.

We had made several trips to the Manzanar Internment camps in the Eastern Sierras, where the wrongful imprisonment of Japanese citizens was given a certain amount of gravitas. And expected the same degree of honor at a slave farm, where, only 150 years earlier kidnapped and sold Africans were subjected to unspeakable horrors.

We were wrong.

What should be a somber memorial to inequality has been turned into a Disneyfied exploitation where guests are, according to the brochure, invited to "experience slavery."

Oh really, some douchebag from Dayton, Ohio flies in, sees the reconstructed sheds, feels the warm bayou sun and gazes out onto the massive sugar cane fields, then goes home having experienced slavery?

Think I'm exaggerating? Check out the last line in this description of the Big House, where Mr. and Mrs. Asshole lived.


I don't know what kind of funding they were getting from the state, but the fine folks at Oak Alley were big on hawking Mint Julips.

And what proper slave plantation be without its own Plantation Bar? A cavernous room serving all manner of spirits that is also available for birthday parties, weddings and anniversaries.

I'm sure given the opportunity, they'd be happy to host a Bar Mitzvah, but I like to think fellow members of the tribe would find a more appropriate setting.

I've never been to Auschwitz or Dachau, I'm guessing they don't have a catering facility.

Or an available chocolate waterfall.

Hate to bore you with another post about New Orleans, but the city is so colorful and so bursting with energy I couldn't resist.

If you're salivating for another good diatribe about advertising you'll just have to wait until tomorrow.

Pictured above, you'll see my wife (she's on the right, today is her birthday, she's 44 too) and a man who calls himself Windex Pete. Trust me when I say his association with cleaning products, hygiene or anything soapy ends there.

As you can see it's nighttime.

And if you have any sense of the French Quarter you'll recognize Lafitte's Blacksmith Shop Bar in the background. Lafitte's is rumored to be the oldest bar in America.

I had spotted Windex Pete, it's hard to miss a man walking around town with a mudflap/washboard strapped to his torso, earlier in the day while taking a walking tour through the nearby Treme district. He was noticeably more sober in the AM. By nightfall, it was obvious Windex Pete had been three sheets to the wind.

At the time of this photo, I too had been well-lubricated, and caught Windex Pete's attention while he was riding his bike and working his street hustle. He had a bloody eye and his lower lip looked as if it had just been torn away from the frozen wall of a meat locker. Moreover, I don't know if he had showered since Hurricane Katrina.

In other words, he was a walking Red Flag to the typical scared white tourists who had journeyed to New Orleans to see glamorous Bourbon Street and hear "When the Saints Coming Marching In."

But Windex Pete, and how can you resist a man with a legendary nickname like that, was the Real Deal. So I gladly reached in my wallet to "buy a song."

The lighting sucks and Pete is an unusually black, black man, but it gets better as I angled around to get a better view.





Turns out Windex Pete also lived in Culver City for a spell and he regaled us with stories of time spent at the Fox Hills Mall and Dinah's near the 405. He also offered to take my wife and I to the seedier side of Rampart Ave., to the Oompa Loompa Room, where we could watch him sit in with the band, The Can't-Hardly-Playboys.

He said if we got lucky, the legendary Kermit Ruffins might be in the house.

Had I not three Sazeracs and a couple of beers in the tank, and had my daughters not been traveling with us, I might have taken him up on his offer. Who knows what kind of adventure might have transpired? Now I wish I had gone.

Instead, we combed the rest of the French Quarter and came across Tanya and Dorise. It's rumored that Tanya was the inspiration for the Annie character in Treme (a must see series, BTW) but I'll leave you to decide.





If after all this you don't feel the slightest inkling to visit the Crescent City, I suggest you pour yourself a good strong Sazerac.

Actually, it's my wife's birthday, make it two.

One of the pleasures of being the father of two college age daughters is the built-in excuse to visit colleges.

I don't know about you, but I love colleges and universities. Perhaps because stepping on campus allows me to step back in time. I fondly remember Syracuse University (a magnificent campus) as the first time in my life when I was not living under the overbearing demands of my father.

As such, the rules that applied to me at home did not apply to me some 250 miles north, under the snowy skies of upstate NY. There was excessive drinking, drugs, skirmishes with the campus police and the threat of academic expulsion.

Good times.
But I'll save that for another post.

Over this recent Christmas break, we, the entire Siegel clan, decided it would be a good idea to head to Na' Orlans, to visit the campus of Loyola University, where my youngest had just recently been accepted. We could also visit Tulane (still pending) and swing by LSU (also still pending.)

From there we could traverse the swampy state of Louisiana and stop in at Austin to see the University of Texas, also still pending but apparently very high on my daughter's wish list. For no other reason than she likes their logo and the hue of their burnt orange colors.

The trip would also be a nice little vacation, as my wife and I both love Na' Orlans, which we decided has all the charm of a European city without the snootiness and the cigarette smoke.

It was a fine plan.
Until it wasn't.

The 3 &1/2 hour flight was smooth and uneventful. Then we reached the border of Louisiana, where a thick front of warm Gulf air met a cold Arctic blast dropping down from Canada -- in my other life I'm a Meteorologist.


This produced some monumental rainfall and thunderstorms. There was the normal rocking and swaying. And then there was the stowing of the snack carts, the flashing of the seat belt sign, and the stern warnings from the flight attendants.

Followed by the always calming voice of the pilot.

"Ladies and gentlemen, sorry for the rough ride. If you look out the window you'll see there's a bit of a storm. We're gonna swing around the north side of the city and approach from the east. We should be on the ground in 15 minutes. Sit back, enjoy the fireworks and relax."

For the next 15 minutes I, a devout atheist, prayed to the avionics God I don't believe in and went over all the post-humous logistics in my head.

There was the letter of instructions left on the shelf in the kitchen. The Trust and the Will had been recently updated. And that assignment for the Discovery Network, well, that'll just have to be written by some other hacky copywriter.

Thanks to the onboard flight tracking system on the television screen embedded in the headrest, I was able to monitor the progress towards our arrival (?) at Louis Armstrong International Airport.

10,000 feet above sea level, destination is 8 minutes away.
7,500 feet above sea level, destination is 5 minutes away.
5,000 feet above sea level, destination is 3 minutes away.
2,500 feet above sea level, destination is 2 minutes away.
500 feet above sea level, destination is 1 minute away.

I looked out the window, and through the numerous lightening strikes I could see the tops of the street lamps. Soon we would be safely ensconced at our hotel, where my wife and I could enjoy some meticulously-prepared Sazerac cocktails and laugh about this flying nightmare.

And then, just as I expected the wheels to touch down, they didn't. My body was slammed back into the seat with the force of 5G's and the roar of the engines filled the cabin as the plane rocketed up towards the swirling skies.

Landing aborted! We were literally 10 feet above sea level!

A microburst was lingering over the runway and Captain Hirschner decided it was best to go back around and try again.

Unfortunately, he didn't have enough fuel for another circle around the bayou.

So, while the plane climbed through the turbulence in a hair raising impromptu take off, the pilot announced we would be headed to Houston for a refueling so we could do it all over again.

I grabbed the throwaway fleece blanket and used it to towel off my very moist armpits. Then, from my one-row-away-from-the-restroom-seat at the back of the plane, I heard what you never want to hear from an experienced flight attendant…

"Wow, I've never seen it this bad before."



Two weeks ago, I decided to change the face of RoundSeventeen.

Despite the warnings of my friend and fellow blogger Jeff, I signed up for Google's AdSense program and began allowing various advertisers to hawk their wares on my modest little blog.

In the interest of making the most money possible, I didn't just dip my toe in the water, I went full bore and let the good guys at Google plaster my page with ads (insert bukake joke here.)

Since signing up I've seen the rotation of ads include everything from Norm Reeves Honda Superstore to some arcane evangelical school in the heart of Georgia looking for future seminaries.

Not sure they're gonna find any future missionaries here at R17.

In any case, the program is up and running. And this little media channel that I've built all on my own, without any VC capital and without any regard for how it might be destroying my once promising career as a copywriter, is already generating revenue.

Are you wondering how much money the inter web is putting in my pocket?

Of course you are.

And politicians, particularly those in the new administration should take heed as well. Because frankly, despite the promises of President Shitgibbon, those coal mining jobs and those flange manufacturing jobs and all those Rust Belt jobs are simply not coming back.

But there are big bucks to be had in the job of blogging.

I just checked the Earnings stat page. And after all the page views and click throughs and percentages have been tallied, in just two weeks time, I've amassed...are you ready?...68 cents.

I know 2016 has not been kind to us in many ways, with the election debacle, the many celebrity deaths and the recent stumble of the Washington Huskies football team, but the good Lord hath provided.

My Exit Plan is in place.

This Thanksgiving, I truly have something to be thankful for.

Have a great holiday.


As you may or may not recall, earlier this year I traveled up to Oakland for a family wedding. And I know the first question that comes to mind is, "who gets married in Oakland?"

But my niece and her now-husband live there and to be honest, the city is making a comeback and provided many pleasant surprises.

One of the not-so-pleasant surprises was the appearance of Kash Doll. As I detailed in an earlier posting, Ms. Doll and her "crew" showed up at our downtown hotel and decided it would be a perfect location for shooting her new music video.

Being unfamiliar with the Oakland hip hop scene, and upon first sighting, my wife and daughters assumed Ms. Doll and her scantily clad cohorts were simply street walkers. And had no idea she was a legitimate professional musician with serious credentials.

Like being able to rhyme words like bitch and snitch, glock and cock and suck and fuck.

You know, a songwriter.

The rather loud filming of the Kash Doll/Philthy Rich Joint went way past the midnight hour. And had I not had a few choice words with the hotel manager, the shoot could have easily gone until the sun came up. Attention to detail, the right lighting, getting just the right hand gestures, I've been on many shoots myself and know these things take time.

The inconvenience was not without its rewards. The hotel comped me for the night and sprang for breakfast and lattes at their in-house Starbucks which was right on the premises. Thank you Kash Doll.

As if that weren't enough to compensate me for a lost night of sleep, I now have a copy of the video that was so laboriously labored over.

Am I going to share it with you? You're damn right I'm going to share it with you.

Bear in mind the language is a little crude so might want to slap on the headphones. But what Kash Doll lacks in refinement she certainly makes up for in artistic expression. And this my friends, is high art.


Wrong.

The pundits and the prognosticators told us that people felt one way. When in fact people felt the other. The "experts" crunched their numbers over and over again. They reviewed their focus group findings. They crossed their T's and dotted their i's. They stood high on their soapboxes and with uncanny confidence, told us the way it was and the way it was going to go.

And yet it didn't.

If it didn't have such disastrous impact on our country and the country we'll be handing over to our children, I'd be laughing. We're only two weeks into this new administration and the cabinet is already looking like half the cast of Mississippi Burning -- the white half.

The truth is we've seen this type of comical miscalculation before.

In advertising.

My old boss, Jay Chiat, brought many great contributions to our industry, the birth of west coast creativity, an unrelenting demand for excellence, innovations in art and architecture. Planning wasn't one of them.

Since the late 90's we have witnessed the ascent of the planners/strategists. Not only have they been rising, they've been multiplying. Today's typical BDA (Big Dumb Agency) now has Communication Strategists, Brand Strategists, Media Strategists and Digital Content Strategists. If I told you I knew what they did, I'd be lying.

And if I told you I understood their Powerpoint decks with their vast array of polygons, vectors and arrows, and how all that data translates into greater sales of Wheat Thins, disposable razors or underpowered Fiat hatchbacks, well, I'd be lying again.

Perhaps I should count my blessings.

Because the next time I sit in a briefing and hear some horsecockery from our "experts" and feel the need to question the brief or the strategy, I now have additional weapons in my counter argument arsenal.

We used to cite the Seinfeld effect. In focus group after focus group, respondents claimed the show sucked. That it was boring. Or, better yet, it was about nothing.

It was about nothing. And had the network sheeple listened to their highly-paid pollsters, they would have left more than a billion dollars on the table.

Of course, Seinfeld is now a dated Big Data reference. Half the people working in advertising weren't even born when Kramer failed to master of his own domain.

So now, when we want to push back on planning, when we want to question the brief, when we insist on finding our own human truths, we have the bungled election of 2016.

Thank you Nate Silver, you've done us all a great service.

What is that, you ask?

Is it an alien?

Something they removed from my dog?

The latest offering from the local Dim Sum joint?

Maybe this will help.

No?

It's a lemon. A mutant, to say the least, that fell off my lemon tree. Why am I posting a mutant lemon off my backyard lemon tree? Well, this has been a busy and emotionally draining week.

And when life hands you lemons, you make lemonade.

Or, in this case, an end of the week blog posting.

You know who really lost last week?

These guys.

The rough-riding, camo-wearing, weapon-sexuals who for weeks preceding the election, stated in no uncertain terms, that if their guy didn't win they were prepared to go all Wolverine on us and stage their own Lexington Concord.

By the way, I'm sure the folks pictured above are much more familiar with the Red Dawn reference than they are to the very birth of our nation.

But you know and I know that on the night on November 7th, these white trash assnuggets were polishing their 5.56 polymer tipped ammo and chomping at the bit to wreak some revenge on the cultural elitists, global elitists and kale-eating nutrition elitists who stole their election.

If things didn't go their way, these Rambo-wannabes warned, blood would run all the way from 5th Avenue down to the Pacific via Wilshire Blvd.

Intricate maps were drawn up. Complete with stealthy diversions, Patton-like flanking maneuvers and tactical positions marked up for the group's best snipers. Finally, they thought, an opportunity to leverage all those weekend warrior training trips to the woods.

And lob homemade hand grenades at Them. You know Them, the enemy who wants to destroy this great country with education, access to proper healthcare, sensible banking regulations, alternative energy sources and equal rights for all citizens.

What kind of un-American bullshit is that?

Guess what Bobby Jo Kalashnikov and Betty Bag O'Bullets, your guy won.

Not with more votes, he didn't win more votes. But he won nonetheless, with the same gerrymandered system you so vocally distrust and want to destroy. The one that was rigged by, how did David Duke put it, oh yeah the Jooos - who, as it turns out, are the world's worst puppetmasters and stringpullers.

Well the doomsday scenario they so desperately wanted did not materialize. Alex Jones will have to conjur up some new false flags. And all that preparation will have be to put on powder.

At least until 2020.

What's the expiration date for freeze dried beef stroganoff?


I used to sleep like a champion.

Those days are long gone.

Now I find myself leaping out of bed, ok, not exactly leaping, but rising while the sun is still on the bottom side of the horizon. This is not to my liking. And it's clearly not my first choice.

If I had my druthers I'd be three cycles deep into REM sleep and dreaming of Angelina Jolie, she's single now.

Or as my wife would say,

"Keep dreaming. I'm sure after the break up with Brad Pitt she's on the prowl for a fat, bald Jew in a 2007 Lexus with the dual climate control and Mark Levenson stereo. If you can make that happen, go for it."

My point is...what was my point...oh yeah, I can't sleep anymore. Which, as I mentioned before, was not always the case.

As a teenager I'd rarely be out of bed before lunch hit the table. And in college, far from my father's watchful and scornful eye, I'd gladly skip class and wake up when the sun was at its highest point in the day and the temperature was at its apex, which in Syracuse was rarely above 28 degrees.

Of course the logical solution would be for me to go to bed earlier. At a more reasonable hour like 10 or 11PM, you know like my fellow 44 year olds. But the Internet will not allow.

This is messing with my system. I'm eating lunch when I should be eating breakfast. And I find myself intrigued with the early bird specials at my local Denny's. Two for one Salisbury Steak if I order before 4 PM. How can I pass that up?

Oh, look it's 8:30 AM.

Maybe I'll take a nap.

There are some big changes coming to RoundSeventeen.

And of course, by big I mean banner ads usually 128 X 324 in size.

It all started last week, when on the first day of a new gig I ran into a copywriter friend. Before we were briefed on the new project we had time to catch up and shoot the shit. Naturally, as is always the case when two copywriters start chatting, the discussion turned to other copywriters, schmucks, who were making money, much more money, than either of us.

He started telling me of another blogger and how he had successfully monetized his operation with ads. He didn't know for sure but thought this other blogger had anywhere from 10,000 to 15,000 page visits a month, which had roughly translated into $500 of extra money.

FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS, I said, in a voice that was inappropriately loud in a place of business.

Shit, who couldn't use an extra $500 a month? If I could swing 500 bucks just for my daily bouts of industry-bashing, career self-immolation and narcissistic nostalgia, my wife and I could live like royalty.

We could enjoy that sharp cheddar cheese I like instead of the store branded American.

We could switch from the scratchy toilet paper we're currently using to that nice soft quilted 2 ply that seems to reward me with every use.

And we could spring for that new outdoor security camera system that beams HD pictures in glorious 4K so I could keep an eagle eye on my white trash neighbor's nefarious activities.

Well, that was all I needed to hear. So I took a deep dive into the blogger settings and signed up for their advertising program.

I don't know why I had resisted the notion before. Some nonsense about purity. Editorial control. And having Respect for my readers. Then I looked at the sales numbers for my books, books that you never bought or reviewed or created any buzz about and thought, screw that.

The process has not taken long.

As you might have noticed, the good folks at Google have already polluted this page. I've seen ads for Nest Thermostats, camping equipment and Mammoth Mountain. Which tells me, the ad placement is governed by algorithms of my current online activities.

Well, my mama didn't raise no fool. I did a little digging and found out that the biggest online sales stem from auto insurance, recipe tutorials and penis enlargement pills.

So don't be surprised if in the near future you find yourself reading a lot more RoundSeventeen posts about T-boning, chicken masala and Ron Jeremy.

It's two days after the election. But since I'm writing this post in advance on Saturday November 5th, I have no idea who the President will be.

I know who it won't be -- Uncle Bernie Sanders.

I stated on this blog months ago that America was not ready for a Jewish President, even an agnostic one like Bernie. I believed that then. And in light of the bigotry and racism we've seen in this year's campaign, I believe it even more now.

"Oh, but we've had a black President, there might even be a woman President, surely you can't think America is not ready for a Jewish President?"

Permit me to introduce you to Lana Lokteff, a self-styled white knight and protector of Aryan culture despite the fact that she is of Russian descent and clearly not a naturally born blonde.

Lana, or as I refer to her, Eva Braun's ugly niece, and her equally hair challenged co-host Henrik (perhaps the missing link primate scientists have been searching for) host a lovely internet based show called Red Ice Radio.

Here, free from FTC regulation, they spout their virulent anti-semitism to thousands of followers. See if you can get thru two minutes....

In this one particular clip, they mock Israeli doctors and nurses who are risking their lives to save the lives of Syrian refugees who have been cast onto the open waters by a different group of Jew haters.

How anyone can find fault with human beings helping other human beings and preventing them from drowning, defies all manner of logic.

But this ugly Nazi gasbag and her shit-for-brains boyfriend don't stop there. You see, according to these rocket scientists, the reason the Jooos are directing the non-swimming Syrian refugees safely to the shore is to further the Islamic invasion of Europe.

Yeah, that makes perfect sense.

Israel has its hands full with 57 Muslim countries around the world, all seemingly bent on its delegitimization and ultimate destruction. How is it in their best interest to advance the cause of an Islamic takeover of Europe?

Clearly, on this and so many other issues, Lana hasn't thought this through.

Sorry Eva Braun, your Russian niece is not only ugly and hateful, she's 50 Nordic-adjacent shades of stupid.

I remember a simpler time.

"Oh no, not another old man war story."

A simpler time when my partner and I were handed an assignment. We were told we'd have two weeks to work on it. And, that in two weeks time, we'd be showing our work to Lee, as in Lee Clow.

More often than not, we'd get it wrong. Lee would straighten us out, point us in a more focused direction and we'd come back to him in another two weeks. The process would repeat itself over and over again, but in the end we usually had something we could be proud of. The work would be presented, by Lee. Sold. And then produced.

I told you it was simpler.

In 2016, that's not the way it goes. Not by a long shot. Today I'm a freelancer and despite the fact that I have more experience than everyone on the org chart, any work I do must first get the blessing of the ACD, Associate Creative Director.

ACDs usually want to see the work 24 hours after I've been handed a brief. It's never to their liking. But given it's been one rotation of the earth it's rarely to my liking as well. ACDs are funny because now that they have a title they need to start showing why they're worthy of a bigger title.

If and when the work goes to the next layer, the Creative Director, it is often caveated by the ACDs. And if something is liked, it's accompanied by some editorial...

"We told them to do that."

Not liked...

"We told them not to do that."

Creative Directors tend to be more savvy. They know to bring in extra artillery. So before the work, now examined by two all-knowing lawyers of middle management proceeds, it gets presented to the planners. If we are to go back to the cake analogy, the planners are the creamy vanilla filling. You can draw your own conclusions on that.

Next up, the work goes to the Group Creative Directors. Though these folks are spread thin on multiple accounts, they've still got plenty of opinions. And ways to get their thumbprint on the work. Of course, their revisions, deconstruction and new spin on the idea must be completed within 24 hours.

Everything it seems must be turned around in the span of one day.

Next up, the ECD. Executive Creative Directors didn't get to be Executive Creative Directors without having an opinion or two. And often those opinions are quite different than the plainly ignorant opinions of GCDs gunning for their position. So the work gets torn apart. And needs to be reassembled.

By when? You know when.

It's been a long journey, but now, finally, the work is being presented to the CCO, the Chief Creative Officer, the top rung of the creative ladder. Only, as I've mentioned in previous postings, he or she is not. Because even if the work squeaks by this big wig it still has to cut the mustard with the Leadership council/partnership/committee/squadron/board/conglomeration/junta.

And if you think a congressional filibuster is the height of inefficiency, well you haven't experienced the corporate equivalent of the Bataan Death March.

The good news is the work is finally put together in a deck. But because of scheduling conflicts, the presentation had to be canceled, so the 178 page deck was compressed and sent over to the client via a pdf on a very large zip drive.

Where it will sit unzipped, unviewed and unmolested for at least a week.

And then, it will start all over again.

There is something unnerving about walking into a marijuana dispensary.

I know it's legal. I know there are as many dispensaries in Los Angeles as there are Starbucks. And I know I won't get arrested and spend a night in the clink, as I did a long, long time ago while visiting the Jersey Shore.

By the way, if you're going to hole up in a jail, the one in Belmar was very clean.

Still, it's hard to process the whole process when your head is filled with so many memories of making a similar transaction on the sly; whether it was buying weed from shady characters in Greenwich Village to taking a cab ride into the heart of Harlem only to come away with some marijuana-like oregano.

I hadn't been to the dispensary in quite some time. In my case, a little goes a long way. I don't wake and bake as I used to do in college. Now, I like to have some on hand for camping trips or for "medicinal purposes", like when my plantar fascitis flares up.

In any case, before gaining entry to the back room of the dispensary I had to go through the security check.

Alas, my "medical" marijuana card had expired. Meaning, a trip to the "medical" marijuana "doctor" was in order. Please note the ample use of quotes because it's hard to take any of these cannabis charades seriously.

Fortunately the "doctor", who also has equity in the dispensary, was located just down the street. It's a tiny ramshackle office that sits under the shadow of the 405 freeway, wedged between a taco stand and an old-timey steak house that still serves green beans fresh from the can.

Also fortunately, the waiting room was empty.

The last time I was in there it was packed. Mostly with giggling high school kids eager to see Dr. FeelGood. I took a seat on the cheap Ikea furniture and paged through the latest edition of High Times. The centerfold was a glorious three page fold out of a baseball-sized bud of Five Star Master Kush. Who says print is a dead medium?

After a few minutes I was led down the hallway to the windowless office of the "doctor." It was 1:30 in the afternoon and apparently I had caught him while he was plowing through his Filipino lunch -- a plate of Sisig (sizzling pork cheeks, brain and liver) smothered in Sriracha sauce.

He asked me a few questions. Didn't even look at my feet, now burdened with bone spurs from 25 years of running. And had me sign some silly piece of paper about my "medical affliction" and my dissatisfaction with more "traditional conventional treatments."

But before he handed me my shiny new medical marijuana card enabling me to enjoy all the "medicinal" benefits of state-regulated and grown sativa, he relieved my wallet of forty bucks. The only relief this "doctor" provided.

He thanked me and vigorously shook my hand.

On the way out, I noticed I had Sriracha sauce all over my palm.

The Cubbies finally won the World Series and now, three days later, the adrenaline is just leaving my body.

I'm not a big baseball guy. If I find myself at a ballpark in April or May, it's usually to enjoy pastoral Chavez Ravine, drink beer and eat $9 hot dogs filled with various unmentionable rat parts. But come late September, October and now early November, and I can identify RISP, name 10 Jewish players currently in the Big Show and correctly spot the difference between a cutter and a slider.

I love the World Series. And though I've only been to Chicago once, on a disgustingly extravagant film shoot (OPM), I love the Windy City. That the Cubbies took home the ultimate prize only made it sweeter.

What made this year's Fall Classic even classic-er, was what happened after the last out was recorded.

I'm sure you saw it. As did 40 million other viewers who were glued to their boob tubes. A 60 second (not 6 second you Vine-aphiles) spot from Nike that captured the joy Midwesterners have been waiting for 108 years.

Like a 101 mile per hour two seam fastball delivered by Aroldis Chapman, the spot was pure perfection. The music. The location. The Harry Caray call. All perfection.

And what was most rewarding was the Truth, intentionally capitalized.

You don't see much Truth in advertising these days. I'm not talking about bait & switch, or weasel words, or sales events that claim to be ending soon but never do. I'm talking about true Truth. Insights into human behavior that can, when used wisely, be used to tug at heartstrings, raise goosebumps and earn some real estate in our collective mindspace.

I think people will be talking about this commercial in the same breath as, "Remember when the Cubbies finally won the World Series."

Here's the thing. That Truth here wasn't unearthed by big data. Nor did it require a 6 week deep dive by the planning department. I guarantee it was something that sprang up when a copywriter and an art director were just shooting the shit and one said...

"When we were kids, my little brother used to throw on his jersey, grab his mitt and bat, run out to the park and play imaginary baseball all by himself. He'd hit the ball, run the bases, and do the color commentary. And he wouldn't come home until the sun set or my mom would be screaming out the window for Dinner."

And the partner replied, "yeah, my sister did that on a basketball court.  We should do something with that."

What I love most about this spot is its simplicity. There are no special effects. The execution is purposefully small. And perhaps most importantly, it's a spot that any maker of sporting goods could put their logo on.

But guess what, simpleminded marketer and killer of all good ideas that artfully employ a category-sell, they didn't.

Nike did. And to victor go the spoils.


Heineken Light makes it OK to flip another man's meat.

What?

SFX: DVR in Reverse.

Heineken Light makes it OK to flip another man's meat.

Let me get this straight. The agency brought you rounds and rounds of work. Work that no doubt stressed the great taste of Heineken Light, the beer of choice for young hipsters who want the great taste of a great tasting beer but without all the calories associated with a full bodied import.

And because there was a celebrity spokesperson involved, my guess is the script scrutiny was extra intense. The last thing anyone wants to do is embarrass themselves in front of an A-list thespian like Neil Patrick Harris.

And yet, after all that, after all the hundreds and hundreds of man hours on this pivotal spot, you guys chose this lifeless drek, with a meaningless and pointless homosexual innuendo, against a white syc, with the same production value afforded the shooting a 5 year old's backyard birthday party?

I've spent a lot of time in this stupid marketing business and still can't wrap my head around this one.

How the planners convinced the client this was on strategy?

How the creatives arrived at this weird contrivance and more importantly how they sold it?

And how something like this actually sells more beer?

Heineken Light makes it OK to flip another man's meat.

Next time I'm having lunch with one of my gay friends or my gay uncle is visiting from Palm Springs, I'll have to ask exactly what that means.

Or, maybe I don't want to know.

In any case, I wish the people from Heineken would reach out to me. I'd be happy to give them advertising that moves their product.

Instead of commercials that sell more Beck's Light.

Heineken Light makes it OK to flip another man's meat.


There's an old saying that even a broken clock is right twice a day. I find it hard to believe that Donald Trump could manage two right things in a day, but sadly he has.

Recently he mentioned the notion of Congressional term limits. I can't imagine why this doesn't resonate, but for me it does. Frankly, I'm tired of do-nothing congressmen and congresswomen who have been drawing a salary, enjoying free healthcare and the unlimited use of the Congressional gym including their Olympic sized swimming pool, for 6 terms, 7 terms or even 8 terms.

These old codgers have been sucking on Uncle Sam's teat longer than my 44 years.

The second is the notion that Hilary Clinton has been in office for 30 years and has done little in the way of change. At face, this is unfair. You can't expect a Senator or a Secretary of State to bring about wild change. It's the nature of our consensual system.

At the 30,000 foot level however, Trump is correct. Not about Clinton, per se. But about politicians. And politics. If this campaign season has done anything, it's shown the light on the ugly way, our leaders go about their business. It's less about substantive change or policy, and more, much more, about slamming the other candidate, slinging mud, and spinning the news in a hyperbolic positive way.

Mmmmm, why does that sound so familiar?

Oh, I know why, because I worked in advertising. And I know this may come as a shock to some of you but there are politics in advertising. More than any of us want to admit.

Maybe some of you have been a victim of office politics. I know I have.

You see I naively went about my business focusing on the client's business. I spent waking and non-waking hours sweating the creation and crafting of new campaigns, new ideas and new ways to get to the marketplace.

I did little in the way of buttering up to management, polishing my image or cutting closed door meetings to jump a few rungs on the corporate ladder.

As a copywriter or a creative director, I was a contender.

As a political career climber, I was a Grade A chump.

The refrain I often hear about this year's election and our two ethically-challenged candidates, "Is this the best we've got?"

And then I look at the leaders in our own industry, the ones taking home 8 figure compensation packages, the ones building offices with no desks, the ones scheming huge holding company mergers,  the ones groping women, the ones screaming about 'Fucking Jews', the ones sitting in First Class asking for a new flute of champagne as the plane loses altitude over the Mariana Trench, and I think,

"Is this the best we've got?"

Color me shocked.

Last week, in addition to announcing a 10% cut in overall staff, Twitter pronounced their breakthrough media platform -- Vine -- officially dead. In the coming months, the app used to make 6 second cinematic masterpieces will soon be discontinued.

This paradigm-shifting news sent dozens of Fortune 100 companies scurrying to their collective whiteboards.

How, they wondered, would they be able to tell their unique brand engaging stories and actively connect with consumers on an ongoing and authentic basis that resulted in exponential sales growth without their precious Vine videos...oh wait, that didn't happen.

Is that schadenfreude in the air? Of course it is.

You see I was skeptical of this digital horsecockery when it first arrived on the scene.

Pardon my cynicism, but I spent a lifetime trying to craft compelling spots into 30 second time slots. And poo-pooed the media genii who convinced our clients it could all be done in 15 seconds. So when some media planner with baby soft hands and a carefully-sculpted lumberjack beard told me it all had to be done in these new 6 second Vines, I quickly volunteered to write the email blasts.

Not one to hold back, I posted this in 2014.

Perhaps it's only fitting that a media platform that was short on substance, short on engagement, and short on any meaning whatsoever, was also short on life. Barely lasting two years in the public eye.

Who knows how this will reverberate throughout the industry.

Because, as my previous posting noted, Twitter had also created an entire division dedicated to measuring and analyzing Vine data -- Loop Counts. And that in turn spawned all new hirings in the ad agency world and exciting opportunities for social media analysts.


But, if there are no Vines then sadly there is no need for skilled professional Loop Counters. And this is where it really gets sad.

Because if an MBA with a degree from Wharton and a proven two year track record of extracting valuable brand insights from people watching 6 second videos while sitting on the crapper, can't make a decent living and have enough money in his pocket for a $7 cold brew coffee, what hope do the rest of us have?

Last week I did something I hadn't done in a good eight years, I went home.

Some of you may recognize the little hamlet as it was recently showcased on national TV. That cute little 12 year old girl who plays the ukulele and sings like a beatnik Ella Fitzgerald, is also from Suffern.

It's odd to think of this place as my home when in reality I lived there less than ten years -- from when I was 12 until I was 22. But of all the years of one's life, these perhaps are the most formative.

To the dismay of their wives, I spent most of my time in Suffern with my high school buddies. The drinking, the cavorting, and the storytelling resumed as if we were on a camping trip and the 8 year gap was simply me stepping away to the bushes to take a leak.

My neck and cheekbones are still in agony from all the laughter and I find myself chomping on Tylenols as if they were chicklets.

Despite our better judgment, we went to our high school reunion. Which one, you ask? The number doesn't matter. I'm 44, you do the math.

The turnout was light, but it was more than fascinating to talk with people who I knew in a different life. Jocks. Stoners. Band Nerds. Each one had their own surprising tale to tell. And, had I not become instant friends with the bartender and his industrial-sized bottle of Maker's Mark, I might even be able to remember some of them.

Also, apologies to any classmates (who generally don't read this) if I cornered you and pimped my latest book. That was the bourbon talking. As my California friends will attest, I'm very shy about self promotion.

On a less jovial note, my hometown visit also included some obligatory trips to the cemetery, to pay respects to our friend Jim, who we lost way too early.

And to see the final resting place of my parents. The sight of their matching side-by-side tombstones stopped me in my tracks and immediately opened the floodgates. It also sent me scurrying throughout the nearby woods for tombstone-appropriate pebbles and rocks -- those of you who are MOT or friends of MOT will understand.

But perhaps what I miss most about Rockland County/Northern New Jersey are the diners. There is something about sitting in a booth, thumbing through a 38 page menu and being served by a salty waitress named Donna or Karen, that just cannot be beat. We found ourselves at the Stateline Diner so often, that on the third visit my buddy Jamie - one of the funniest people on the planet -- remarked to the hostess,

"Look at us, we're like homing pigeons."

It all felt good.

And if you'll excuse the tired cliche, going home was like wrapping yourself in a warm, comfortable, cozy blanket.

But coming back to California (not Cali, Suffern people, no one says Cali) to my other home was also good. Here, I don't need a blanket.

And if the Santa Ana winds kick in, I have my brand new air conditioning.

Last week Campaign Magazine released the results of its latest survey and found morale in the ad industry had dropped 36 percent from last year's dangerously low levels.

Among the many reasons for the cliff dive: lack of agency leadership, lack of work/life balance, lack of office space, lack of Christmas bonus, and lack of anybody who has any clue about what the fuck anyone is doing.

It would be easy, too easy, to pile on and in Trumpian fashion say, "See? I told you so." After all I've been writing about these issues for more than 8 years. And has any agency ever reached out to me and said, "Rich, here's a million or two million dollars, come on board and help us turn this around?"

The answer is no, they have not.

Not surprisingly I'm tired of harping on the same old tropes. So I'm not going to.

You've heard that old managerial axiom, "The beatings will continue until morale improves."

Well, it's true. Because the ad agency folks I talk to the most are fellow veteran freelancers who are no longer at the agencies.

We've sat in the cruel 8 AM Monday morning status meetings.
We've occupied the middle seat on the flight to Des Moines.
We've eaten enough shit to fertilize a farm the size of Mongolia.

We took the beatings. Left the cubicle farm. And now our morale has improved.

Two weeks ago, my art director partner and I had a meeting with our client, a small start up company. There were only four of us in the meeting and the enthusiasm was quite contagious. Before long we were not only talking about the ideas on the table but collaborating on new concepts that could be implemented in the future. It was fun, productive and invigorating.

Afterwards, my partner and I looked at each other and thought this is the way advertising should be.

To summarize:

We're happy with agency leadership -- it's us.
We're happy with the work/life balance --I can take a nap anytime I want to.
We're happy with the office space --my partner will often blast Miles Davis from his desk, but his desk is 11.8 miles away from mine in Culver City.

At the risk of jinxing everything, you might say we're the happiest people in advertising.

Last Friday there was a massive shutdown of several major commercial websites, including Amazon, Netflix and Spotify. This was not a normal cyber attack, where hackers typically extract information.

Instead, servers were flooded with inbound requests, thus crippling many of your favorite shopping sites.

The Department of Homeland Security is looking into the matter, but I think what they're likely to find is that millions of readers were rushing to get my new book, The Big Book of Rants, A Gentleman's Guide to a Life in Advertising.

I'm no cyber expert but if we default to Occam's Razor and the simplest possible explanation, I think it's pretty clear the pent up demand for my book crashed the internet.

The book is already getting 5 stars reviews from people who haven't even read it yet.

Moreover, I'm getting a ton of private emails from advertising planners who can't thank me enough for publishing this tome of useless, uninformed rants.

Mark Thompson, a senior planner from Foote Cone in NY, writes...

"We had some joist damage from a recent storm. Our new 36" Wolf Range was listing to the left. Your new book, measuring 3/4 of an inch, worked perfectly to even out the tilt. Thanks."

I'm happy to report the computer glitches have been unglitched. Which makes this a good time to get out your eleven dollars and ninety eight cents and make with the clicks.

Look at it this way, the more books you buy, the less I have to promote them. And I think that's what we all want, right?

I'm still on the road and unaccustomed to writing these blog posts from anywhere but the comfort of my den, so you'll have to excuse me one more trip down memory lane, in this case 714 Euclid Ave.

Do not be fooled by the quaint exterior, this place is a dump. A massive dump. If I had to guess, I would say it is well over 6000 square feet of living space, on 4 floors, three you can see and a musty unfinished basement you can't.

The owner of the joint called this a Boarding House and he would rent out the TEN individual bedrooms to Syracuse university students seeking affordable living.

As luck would have it, I was renter #9 and the landlord agreed to house me in a large bedroom in the aforementioned basement. The price was right. The proximity to campus, about a mile, was doable. And the heat was included in the rent, in Syracuse that's a win-win.

However, the landlord failed to inform me that the bedroom was located right below the kitchen and that some of the hardworking law students were early risers. It became painfully apparent this basement room was going to drive me bonkers.

I asked if I could be moved to a still vacant room on the top floor, see dormer window. The answer was no. In fact the answer was "no" on several occasions. So I did what I think any normal college student, short on sleep and other viable options, would do.

I picked the lock on the empty room. Moved all my belongings up there. And then -- and here's the dastardly part -- I ran a garden hose into the basement window and flooded the room with an inch of water. I called the landlord right away and told him there was a plumbing leak and I had to make an emergency evacuation from the room.

Suffice to say, the plumber arrived within minutes and could not find any leaks.

As you can imagine many unpleasantries and threats were exchanged.

And I know you're thinking less of me right now for taking such extreme measures. I'm even embarrassed to write this. However before you start empathizing with the landlord, keep in mind the man was actually a slumlord.

The house was a city ordinance nightmare.
Floorboards were missing.
The fire exit doors were bolted shut.
And the man had no respect for the students living at the house.

He would show up at the house unannounced. Eat our food. Drink our beer. And on several occasions walk in on the female students, once while one lass was entertaining a male friend -- coitus landlordus interruptus.

One more annoyance.

The driveway, on the left side of the picture, can accommodate 7 cars. Which can come in handy during an upstate NY winter. But Chuck, the landlord, kept his white working minivan parked there all year round. Meaning those of us with cars had to battle the 150 inches of snow and the battalion of army grade snowplows.

If you look back at the picture of the house, you'll see there are two dormers windows on the very top floor. The second is a bathroom that is conveniently situated right above the spot where Chuck would park his vehicle.

Am I saying several of the guys in the house would do their business out the window onto the van? No.

But I'm not not saying that either.

It's a well documented fact that cats have nine lives, but has anyone calculated how many lives belong to humans?

Today, and for the past two days, I have been holed up, under a wilting $9.99 umbrella, in Syracuse, NY. This place does not belong to me in this life, but it did a few lifetime's ago.

The memories of going to college here are quite fuzzy. Did I have a Calculus class in that building? Did I get in a screaming argument with a Film History professor in that building? Did I throw up in the bushes beside that building?

And while I may be light on the specific details, there is no problem recalling the feelings of being here. The confusion. The cold. The crippling insecurity -- (maybe my father is right, maybe I should study accounting and give up this stupid dream of becoming a writer.)

And of course there was the abject poverty.

In the four years I was here, in that other life, I never had two nickels to rub together. I was born to a family of 1st and 2nd generation immigrants. People from the shtetls of Eastern Europe and the gritty mills of working class Scotland. In other words, there was no money.

So if I wanted to go to college -- and my father convinced me I wanted to -- I had to pay for it. Not all of it, but enough of it to keep me washing dishes, tending bar, or waiting on tables, while many of my excessively wealthy classmates were driving new BMW's and buying the good weed.

But as a professor recently told us while touring colleges for our daughters, "The best teaching tool at a university is a little adversity."

In hindsight, it's easy to look back on it and smile.

I stopped in at the Varsity Pizza the other night for a slice of nostalgia. And at one point it occurred to me, I could buy everyone in the place a pie and a pitcher of beer. Then my pepperoni pizza arrived and it wasn't nearly half as good as I had remembered. Then I thought...

Let these spoiled bastards pay for their own pizza.

It was another life, an invaluable one at that. Because after four years, I left with something more important than any sheepskin -- a sense of self and $25,000 worth of confidence.

Three weeks after graduating from Ice Station Zebra, I packed a duffel bag full of clothes, bought a one way ticket to Los Angeles, and got a room at a UCLA frat house, technically it wasn't a room, it was a mattress on the roof, but it was place to lay my head.

The beginning of another life.

Live in LA long enough and certain locations begin to take on a lore of their own. It goes beyond the corner of Pico and Sepulveda or Olympic and La Cienega.

Locales become know by the movie scene that made them famous.

When my wife and I dare to put up with the hourlong wait, we treat ourselves to Mexican food at Pacos Tacos, known to the rest of the world where Jerry McQuire (Tom Cruise) pitches woo to Renee Zelwegger.

The Culver Hotel is a stone's throw from my house. And this, as any visitor to Culver City will tell you, is where the munchkins stayed while filming The Wizard of Oz. I like to picture dozens of drunken midgets (can I say that?) or little people drinking bourbon and chasing statuesque women through the Victorian styled lobby.

Speaking of getting tanked, there's the little Quick E Mart at Overland and Braddock. From my rooftop, I could hit this place with a well struck fairway wood. This little strip mall convenience shop was made famous by Jonah Hill and Michael Cerra in the movie Superbad. It's here, the boys plan to buy enough booze to make them big men on the high school campus.

From the picture I snapped the other day (above) you can see why the location scouts picked this place. And I guarantee my standard iPhone 6S is not doing it any justice.

Two of the four load-bearing walls holding up the roof are lined with every brand of gin, rum, vodka, tequila and whiskey ever committed to a bottle.

Including many you've never heard of.

I did not know, for instance, that Peruvians loved their scotch whiskey, nor that they had found a way to distill it from old llama hooves.

I find myself at this Quick E Mart at least 3 times a week for various sundries and such: coffee filters, Tylenol, paper towels and Johnson & Johnson's Aloe Vera Baby Oil in the 16 ounce recyclable container. And though the clerk, a very outgoing man of indistinguishable Southern Asian descent is always chatting me up -- "How are you today, Boss?" -- I can't understand a word he says.

When I am there I constantly distracted by the visual and alcoholic assault from behind the counter.

There is enough liquor in this place to get through two armageddons.

Should things go squirrelly on November 9th, I know the first store I'll be looting.

This is where it all started. This is where William Hewlett and David Packard put their brains together, along with $538 in funding, to begin their legendary company. By the time I began calling them a client (back in the mid-90's) they were worth billions and billions of dollars, with offices on every continent of the planet. Had there been people in Antarctica with a need for some slow inkjet printers, I'm sure they would have set up shop there as well. My dealings with this printing behemoth were never very pleasant. But today's post is not about that. You see, recently I have begun work for another start up. They don't operate out of a one car garage, but they are in their infancy. And, I hope, they have more than $538 in funding. I'm not going to divulge the name of this new client. I don't have their permission. Plus, I don't need other freelance creatives trying to poach them away. I know that sounds crazy, but from various social media postings I can see that fellow copywriters and art directors are absolutely desperate for work. What I will tell you is that working with them, even at my greatly reduced day rate, is a true joy. For one thing, it's just a bunch of young, energetic guys, gathered in a frumpy 3 story townhouse. It's a half living, half working type of environment that has all the appearances of a well maintained frat house. They all wear shorts, flip flops and three day facial hair. So, it's casual to say the least. But make no mistake, these guys are smart. They're are some MBAs in the crowd. Maybe a Phd. And they all seem very enthusiastic. Everything is "awesome" or "super" or "super, awesome". Last week I showed the CEO and founder some possible new tagline and he was over the moon with giddiness. I know I've developed a thick skin after all these years, but it was downright refreshing to have someone actually appreciate the work I do. The work we all do. It stood in dark contrast to the countless meetings of stone faced corporate executives who see what you've pinned up on the board and launch into their well-rehearsed career posturing, box checking and devil's advocate playing... "I like what you've done here but let me just play..." Oh fuck you! Here's the thing about working with people you actually like, people with a passion, people who see value in what you bring to the table -- you want to give them everything you've got. I've already gone way beyond the original scope of the assignment. Way beyond. So I'm already operating in the red. But you know what? I don't care.

Last week I did something I hadn't done in a good eight years, I went home.

Some of you may recognize the little hamlet as it was recently showcased on national TV. That cute little 12 year old girl who plays the ukulele and sings like a beatnik Ella Fitzgerald, is also from Suffern.

It's odd to think of this place as my home when in reality I lived there less than ten years -- from when I was 12 until I was 22. But of all the years of one's life, these perhaps are the most formative.

To the dismay of their wives, I spent most of my time in Suffern with my high school buddies. The drinking, the cavorting, and the storytelling resumed as if we were on a camping trip and the 8 year gap was simply me stepping away to the bushes to take a leak.

My neck and cheekbones are still in agony from all the laughter and I find myself chomping on Tylenols as if they were chicklets.

Despite our better judgment, we went to our high school reunion. Which one, you ask? The number doesn't matter. I'm 44, you do the math.

The turnout was light, but it was more than fascinating to talk with people who I knew in a different life. Jocks. Stoners. Band Nerds. Each one had their own surprising tale to tell. And, had I not become instant friends with the bartender and his industrial-sized bottle of Maker's Mark, I might even be able to remember some of them.

Also, apologies to any classmates (who generally don't read this) if I cornered you and pimped my latest book. That was the bourbon talking. As my California friends will attest, I'm very shy about self promotion.

On a less jovial note, my hometown visit also included some obligatory trips to the cemetery, to pay respects to our friend Jim, who we lost way too early.

And to see the final resting place of my parents. The sight of their matching side-by-side tombstones stopped me in my tracks and immediately opened the floodgates. It also sent me scurrying throughout the nearby woods for tombstone-appropriate pebbles and rocks -- those of you who are MOT or friends of MOT will understand.

But perhaps what I miss most about Rockland County/Northern New Jersey are the diners. There is something about sitting in a booth, thumbing through a 38 page menu and being served by a salty waitress named Donna or Karen, that just cannot be beat. We found ourselves at the Stateline Diner so often, that on the third visit my buddy Jamie - one of the funniest people on the planet -- remarked to the hostess,

"Look at us, we're like homing pigeons."

It all felt good.

And if you'll excuse the tired cliche, going home was like wrapping yourself in a warm, comfortable, cozy blanket.

But coming back to California (not Cali, Suffern people, no one says Cali) to my other home was also good. Here, I don't need a blanket.

And if the Santa Ana winds kick in, I have my brand new air conditioning.

Last week Campaign Magazine released the results of its latest survey and found morale in the ad industry had dropped 36 percent from last year's dangerously low levels.

Among the many reasons for the cliff dive: lack of agency leadership, lack of work/life balance, lack of office space, lack of Christmas bonus, and lack of anybody who has any clue about what the fuck anyone is doing.

It would be easy, too easy, to pile on and in Trumpian fashion say, "See? I told you so." After all I've been writing about these issues for more than 8 years. And has any agency ever reached out to me and said, "Rich, here's a million or two million dollars, come on board and help us turn this around?"

The answer is no, they have not.

Not surprisingly I'm tired of harping on the same old tropes. So I'm not going to.

You've heard that old managerial axiom, "The beatings will continue until morale improves."

Well, it's true. Because the ad agency folks I talk to the most are fellow veteran freelancers who are no longer at the agencies.

We've sat in the cruel 8 AM Monday morning status meetings.
We've occupied the middle seat on the flight to Des Moines.
We've eaten enough shit to fertilize a farm the size of Mongolia.

We took the beatings. Left the cubicle farm. And now our morale has improved.

Two weeks ago, my art director partner and I had a meeting with our client, a small start up company. There were only four of us in the meeting and the enthusiasm was quite contagious. Before long we were not only talking about the ideas on the table but collaborating on new concepts that could be implemented in the future. It was fun, productive and invigorating.

Afterwards, my partner and I looked at each other and thought this is the way advertising should be.

To summarize:

We're happy with agency leadership -- it's us.
We're happy with the work/life balance --I can take a nap anytime I want to.
We're happy with the office space --my partner will often blast Miles Davis from his desk, but his desk is 11.8 miles away from mine in Culver City.

At the risk of jinxing everything, you might say we're the happiest people in advertising.

Last Friday there was a massive shutdown of several major commercial websites, including Amazon, Netflix and Spotify. This was not a normal cyber attack, where hackers typically extract information.

Instead, servers were flooded with inbound requests, thus crippling many of your favorite shopping sites.

The Department of Homeland Security is looking into the matter, but I think what they're likely to find is that millions of readers were rushing to get my new book, The Big Book of Rants, A Gentleman's Guide to a Life in Advertising.

I'm no cyber expert but if we default to Occam's Razor and the simplest possible explanation, I think it's pretty clear the pent up demand for my book crashed the internet.

The book is already getting 5 stars reviews from people who haven't even read it yet.

Moreover, I'm getting a ton of private emails from advertising planners who can't thank me enough for publishing this tome of useless, uninformed rants.

Mark Thompson, a senior planner from Foote Cone in NY, writes...

"We had some joist damage from a recent storm. Our new 36" Wolf Range was listing to the left. Your new book, measuring 3/4 of an inch, worked perfectly to even out the tilt. Thanks."

I'm happy to report the computer glitches have been unglitched. Which makes this a good time to get out your eleven dollars and ninety eight cents and make with the clicks.

Look at it this way, the more books you buy, the less I have to promote them. And I think that's what we all want, right?

I'm still on the road and unaccustomed to writing these blog posts from anywhere but the comfort of my den, so you'll have to excuse me one more trip down memory lane, in this case 714 Euclid Ave.

Do not be fooled by the quaint exterior, this place is a dump. A massive dump. If I had to guess, I would say it is well over 6000 square feet of living space, on 4 floors, three you can see and a musty unfinished basement you can't.

The owner of the joint called this a Boarding House and he would rent out the TEN individual bedrooms to Syracuse university students seeking affordable living.

As luck would have it, I was renter #9 and the landlord agreed to house me in a large bedroom in the aforementioned basement. The price was right. The proximity to campus, about a mile, was doable. And the heat was included in the rent, in Syracuse that's a win-win.

However, the landlord failed to inform me that the bedroom was located right below the kitchen and that some of the hardworking law students were early risers. It became painfully apparent this basement room was going to drive me bonkers.

I asked if I could be moved to a still vacant room on the top floor, see dormer window. The answer was no. In fact the answer was "no" on several occasions. So I did what I think any normal college student, short on sleep and other viable options, would do.

I picked the lock on the empty room. Moved all my belongings up there. And then -- and here's the dastardly part -- I ran a garden hose into the basement window and flooded the room with an inch of water. I called the landlord right away and told him there was a plumbing leak and I had to make an emergency evacuation from the room.

Suffice to say, the plumber arrived within minutes and could not find any leaks.

As you can imagine many unpleasantries and threats were exchanged.

And I know you're thinking less of me right now for taking such extreme measures. I'm even embarrassed to write this. However before you start empathizing with the landlord, keep in mind the man was actually a slumlord.

The house was a city ordinance nightmare.
Floorboards were missing.
The fire exit doors were bolted shut.
And the man had no respect for the students living at the house.

He would show up at the house unannounced. Eat our food. Drink our beer. And on several occasions walk in on the female students, once while one lass was entertaining a male friend -- coitus landlordus interruptus.

One more annoyance.

The driveway, on the left side of the picture, can accommodate 7 cars. Which can come in handy during an upstate NY winter. But Chuck, the landlord, kept his white working minivan parked there all year round. Meaning those of us with cars had to battle the 150 inches of snow and the battalion of army grade snowplows.

If you look back at the picture of the house, you'll see there are two dormers windows on the very top floor. The second is a bathroom that is conveniently situated right above the spot where Chuck would park his vehicle.

Am I saying several of the guys in the house would do their business out the window onto the van? No.

But I'm not not saying that either.


It's a well documented fact that cats have nine lives, but has anyone calculated how many lives belong to humans?

Today, and for the past two days, I have been holed up, under a wilting $9.99 umbrella, in Syracuse, NY. This place does not belong to me in this life, but it did a few lifetime's ago.

The memories of going to college here are quite fuzzy. Did I have a Calculus class in that building? Did I get in a screaming argument with a Film History professor in that building? Did I throw up in the bushes beside that building?

And while I may be light on the specific details, there is no problem recalling the feelings of being here. The confusion. The cold. The crippling insecurity -- (maybe my father is right, maybe I should study accounting and give up this stupid dream of becoming a writer.)

And of course there was the abject poverty.

In the four years I was here, in that other life, I never had two nickels to rub together. I was born to a family of 1st and 2nd generation immigrants. People from the shtetls of Eastern Europe and the gritty mills of working class Scotland. In other words, there was no money.

So if I wanted to go to college -- and my father convinced me I wanted to -- I had to pay for it. Not all of it, but enough of it to keep me washing dishes, tending bar, or waiting on tables, while many of my excessively wealthy classmates were driving new BMW's and buying the good weed.

But as a professor recently told us while touring colleges for our daughters, "The best teaching tool at a university is a little adversity."

In hindsight, it's easy to look back on it and smile.

I stopped in at the Varsity Pizza the other night for a slice of nostalgia. And at one point it occurred to me, I could buy everyone in the place a pie and a pitcher of beer. Then my pepperoni pizza arrived and it wasn't nearly half as good as I had remembered. Then I thought...

Let these spoiled bastards pay for their own pizza.

It was another life, an invaluable one at that. Because after four years, I left with something more important than any sheepskin -- a sense of self and $25,000 worth of confidence.

Three weeks after graduating from Ice Station Zebra, I packed a duffel bag full of clothes, bought a one way ticket to Los Angeles, and got a room at a UCLA frat house, technically it wasn't a room, it was a mattress on the roof, but it was place to lay my head.

The beginning of another life.

Live in LA long enough and certain locations begin to take on a lore of their own. It goes beyond the corner of Pico and Sepulveda or Olympic and La Cienega.

Locales become know by the movie scene that made them famous.

When my wife and I dare to put up with the hourlong wait, we treat ourselves to Mexican food at Pacos Tacos, known to the rest of the world where Jerry McQuire (Tom Cruise) pitches woo to Renee Zelwegger.

The Culver Hotel is a stone's throw from my house. And this, as any visitor to Culver City will tell you, is where the munchkins stayed while filming The Wizard of Oz. I like to picture dozens of drunken midgets (can I say that?) or little people drinking bourbon and chasing statuesque women through the Victorian styled lobby.

Speaking of getting tanked, there's the little Quick E Mart at Overland and Braddock. From my rooftop, I could hit this place with a well struck fairway wood. This little strip mall convenience shop was made famous by Jonah Hill and Michael Cerra in the movie Superbad. It's here, the boys plan to buy enough booze to make them big men on the high school campus.

From the picture I snapped the other day (above) you can see why the location scouts picked this place. And I guarantee my standard iPhone 6S is not doing it any justice.

Two of the four load-bearing walls holding up the roof are lined with every brand of gin, rum, vodka, tequila and whiskey ever committed to a bottle.

Including many you've never heard of.

I did not know, for instance, that Peruvians loved their scotch whiskey, nor that they had found a way to distill it from old llama hooves.

I find myself at this Quick E Mart at least 3 times a week for various sundries and such: coffee filters, Tylenol, paper towels and Johnson & Johnson's Aloe Vera Baby Oil in the 16 ounce recyclable container. And though the clerk, a very outgoing man of indistinguishable Southern Asian descent is always chatting me up -- "How are you today, Boss?" -- I can't understand a word he says.

When I am there I constantly distracted by the visual and alcoholic assault from behind the counter.


There is enough liquor in this place to get through two armageddons.

Should things go squirrelly on November 9th, I know the first store I'll be looting.

n November 8th my wife and I will do as millions of Americans will do. We'll sit glued to the TV and watch the outcome of the presidential election. Or Shitstorm 2016.

I'm confident that our better angels will prevail.

However, I'm far less confident about the result of those results.

More specifically, I'm talking about the pitchfork and torches crowd who are already taking the safeties off their Glock 9's and AR-15's.

They're already convinced the ballot boxes have been stuffed.

And with a lot of encouragement from their pussy-grabbing leader, they're already to pin the blame on a group of nefarious outsiders.

Who?

The global elitist international bankers, that's who. Maybe some of you are new to the world of alt. right euphemisms, but I'm not. I've heard them all. New World Order. Trilateral Commission. The Bielderberg Group. FreeMasons. ZOG. Illuminati.

It's all code for Joos!

There's this crazy notion that 16 million of us are the cunning puppet masters of the other 8 billion people on the planet.

I don't know whether I should be flattered, belonging to a supergroup with super intelligence and a supernatural ability to manipulate the comings and goings of an entire race of people.

Or whether I should be shaking in my boots because the gig is up and the truth is out. Unmasked, undone and uncovered by a merkin-sporting, tit-groping, illiterate shitgibbon.

One thing is for sure, three weeks from today, on November 9th, we're going to throw the deadbolt on the door and sleep with baseball bats at our side.


Days like today don't happen too often.

In fact, since I've only published three books, they've only happened to me twice in the past.

Once was in 2005, before there was Facebook or Twitter or Blogspot or all manner of social media, so apart from my short interview on KABC radio, no one even knew of Tuesdays With Mantu, My Adventures with a Nigerian Con Artist .

Last year I released my second book, RoundSeventeen & 1/2, The Names Have Been Changed to Protect the Inefficient  and the subsequent social platforms were widely available. I don't think any of us can forget how I bludgeoned and digitally abused the 13 readers who come to this blog on a daily basis. And I apologize for my shameless self-promotion and liberal use of the Guilting Stick.

Today, I am officially releasing my newest opus: The Big Book of Rants , A Gentleman's Guide to a Life in Advertising . And I hope to strike a more appropriate balance.

However, I'm not saying that's going to be easy.

When CNN is breaking news stories, almost on an hourly basis, about a presidential candidate bragging about "grabbing pussy", swinging his alleged big billionaire dick around, talking like a 14 year old, and copping feels on every blond shicksa he's ever come in contact with, it's ridiculously hard to break through the clutter.

So here's the soft sell.

If you can part with eleven dollars and ninety eight cents, this timeless collection of caffeine-fueled, disgruntled employee rants can be all yours. The photo alone, snapped by my good friend and book cover designer Robert Prins  is worth the price. Moreover, the book has been thoughtfully customized to sit perfectly above most makes and models of today's modern toilets.

But don't take my word for it.

Listen to what some of the most experienced advertising planners in the advertising industry have to say about my new book.


According to a recent article  in Ad Age -- not as reliable as Agency Spy, but still a legitimate source of news in our industry -- 2/3 of all accounts are planning to go into review this year.

Two thirds!

I hope you've spent some time with your kids because you won't be seeing them for a while.

I hope you've taken care of all the repairs around the house because all that's going on the back burner.

I hope you've managed to get some stability in your life cause shits about to get real.

If you're a staffer it's enough to make you start Googling things like: arsenic, cyanide, high caliber pistols, and industrial grade sleeping pills. I feel your pain.

Especially if you're employed by the incumbent agency and your tone deaf management decides to mount a sturdy defense.

"We're going to retain this account. We're going to put on our smiley faces. We're going to be agreeable to all client demands. And we're going to reignite the spark that made this pain in the ass client come to our agency just 18 moths ago."

Mind you, I'm not complaining. One of the first tenets in the freelancer's handbook is, "turmoil is your friend."

And as an outsider it's quite amusing to watch an agency go through the wild machinations of trying to retain an account. When you don't have skin in the game, when you're emotionally disconnected from the daily grind, and when you're granted the privilege of being an observer, it's so much easier to see things how they actually are.

Years ago, I had a front row, courtside seat to all this mishigas.

The client had brought in a new CMO, who as all new CMO's do, initiated a lengthy, expensive and futile review. Seems that despite year-to-year double digit sales growth, a content dealer body, and a wealth of work that was some of the smartest in the automotive arena, the brand was simply not being defined to his liking.

He felt, or at the least he told us, that the agency needed to shore up the notion of Luxury. And so, week after week, presentation after presentation, we attempted to redefine Luxury.

I've been doing this a long time and can tell you, it's a fool's game. People know what luxury is and the minute they sit in the driver's seat they know, the car either has it or it doesn't. And no planner-speak or wave of the copywriter magic wand is going to change that.

Mr. New CMO would have none of that.

And so, before the account changed hands and during the last gasping breaths of the review, the agency produced this one last spot. Which, in light of all the idiocy, nonsense and unmitigated torture this one particular assnugget client inflicted on some of the best and brightest people I've had the pleasure of working with, amounts to a delicious 30-second, color-corrected, celebrity-announced Fuck You.

You want luxury? Here's luxury.

In retrospect, and even though I didn't write it, this could be my all time favorite commercial ever committed to celluloid.



I hate you Fan Duel

Pictured above you'll see one of my recent Fan Duel entries. It might be from last week. It might be from last month. It might be from last year. Doesn't matter. They all look remarkably alike.

By noon, Pacific Time, I'm usually in the green. Meaning I'm winning. Cam Newton has thrown for 5 touchdowns. Dan Bailey has kicked 7 field goals, all from 60 yards out. And the Denver Broncos defense have 14 points just on safeties.

And then the tide turns.

Demarco Murray gets a concussion. Or Julio Jones starts dropping passes in the endzone. The players of the NFL seem to conspire against me.

My $100 winnings become 75. And then 50. And then 25.

By the time Al Michaels and Chris Collingsworth start calling the Sunday Night Game I'm no longer in the green. And find myself rooting for Carson Wentz to throw an 80 yard touchdown pass to some third string tight end from Southern North Dakota State, just to get me one fucking point so I can win $9.73.

That's not frustration you're sensing, that's paranoia.

I am convinced the folks at Fan Duel have rigged the system.

You see I resisted the whole fantasy football thing form the very beginning. But then 3 years ago, I caved and gave in to the phenomena, perhaps influenced by the constant playing of the Ed Norton-voiced commercials. I signed up, dropped a small deposit and made my very first picks for my very first entry.

Call it beginner's luck or call it doing my homework, but right from the get-go I was a winner.

45 bucks right out of the gate. Blessed with a fervent imagination, I saw myself as some budding Ace Rothstein. If I played this right I could up my ante, start bringing home some serious cash, and pay the girl's college tuition based solely on the performances of Andy Dalton, Eli Manning and Da'brickashaw what's-his-face.

But that's not the way it went.

Week after miserable week I found myself a point shy, a half a point shy and in one case, two tenths of a point shy of being in the green.

Now, I'm convinced I'll never recoup my losses.

Unless there's stunning performance turned in by Ha Ha Clinton Dix.

Dare to suck on this.

Heard while watching football last Sunday...

"Only those who dare can drive the world forward. The all new Cadillac CTS."

Holy horse shit on dry white toast!!!

Drive the world forward?
Have we become this divorced from reality?
What a load of psycho-babble, brain-bashing, marketing malarkey.

Do the genii at Cadillac, or for that matter so many other automakers, truly believe the words that are coming out of their mouths? As well as their very intensive rigorous fact finding focus groups, which are apparently attended by the next generation of Edisons, Einsteins, and Galileos?

I don't know about you but I'm so god-damned tired of hearing about people who dare.

People who are driven.

People who are refreshing the world with their enlightened choice of brown fizzy sugar water.

Granted, I didn't see the 398-page "People Who Dare" Powerpoint presentation, so I'm not privy to all the big data deep dives and the demographic hair splitting, but I'm going to go out on a limb and state, unequivocally, that people don't buy a Cadillac because it aligns with their altruistic nature or their desire to leave the planet in better shape than they found it or their seemingly perpetual need to drive the world forward -- whatever the fuck that means.

They buy a Cadillac to rub their noses in their neighbor's face, the obnoxious neighbors with the barking pit bulls and the yard full of crab grass.

They buy a Cadillac for the massive 973 horsepower, V-8 engine and the hope that one day America will have its own autobahn.

They buy a Cadillac because they like the boaty feel of yacht but are landlocked in Kentucky.

They buy a Cadillac because it harkens back to an earlier time, when you had to own a schmatta factory or captain one branch of the Gambino family to drive a Coupe de Ville.

They buy a Cadillac because there's a lot of shit going on this world. Shit they can't control. Or understand. Or dare to change. But they can work hard. And they can save money. And they can make their driveway the envy of all the other poor saps on the block who are also not out to alter the course of humankind.

You want daring? How about we dare to ignore so much of this useless planning bullcockery and inject some human insight into what we do. You may not like this, but at least their are some nuggets of truth in this...



In the box

Months ago I was sent a rather ominous letter from the County of Los Angeles. Turns out I was summoned to jury duty and failed to show up. It wasn't because I didn't want to be on a jury, I did.

If you know me at all, you can imagine how I treasure the opportunity to deliver some justice to the imbeciles and cretins of this world.

I answered the letter with an immediate call to the county officials.

I told them that with two girls in college, a very hectic freelance schedule and a blog with 13 insatiable readers, I simply forgot to show up. The woman on the other end of the line was very understanding. She said she would forgo the threatened fine if I showed up to serve the following Tuesday.

Guess what? I forgot to show up for that appointment as well.

Again, not because I'm trying to avoid doing my civic responsibility. I actually enjoy witnessing the entire judicial process. And did I mention the possibility of putting away some imbeciles and cretins?

A few weeks ago, I was summoned again. Not by a simple envelope in the mail. This time somebody showed up at my front doorstep.

That got my attention.

So I showed up at the Inglewood Courthouse ready to do my duty. And as luck would have it, I was one of the first to be paneled, meaning I sat in the box and answered all the questions by the judge. All was going well until late in the interview the judge asked if there was anything about the case that could make me feel impartial about serving?

For one thing, the defendant was defending himself. Which might have been entertaining. On the other hand, the charge was a routine DUI.

He didn't hit anyone. He didn't cause any physical damage. It was just a simple DUI. Only it wasn't that simple and I was more than willing to share my opinion with the 75 potentials jurors seated in the audience on a hot day when the air conditioning wasn't working...

"I have a problem your honor. I can't help notice, and I don't think it has escaped anyone else's attention, the tremendous amount of resources being wasted to bring this case to justice. Look at all these people missing work. Look at all the time being spent. All the schedules re-jigged just because this guy doesn't want to pay a $1000 fine? All due respect to the court, but this feels incredibly irresponsible."

My little ramble didn't elicit a standing ovation, but I certainly heard about it at the break.

"Thank you for speaking up."

"I'm with you, brother."

"Man it's hot in this motherfucking building."

Truth is, I would have been more than happy to adjudicate a robbery or an assault or even something more juicy like a carjacking. But I had no interest in giving up a week of my time to listen to TEN police officers (they told us how many witnesses the DA planned to call to the stand) telling me the defendant was drunk.

Then I heard the magic words reserved for only a lucky few.

"Juror #9, you're excused from the panel. Thank you."

By the way, the guy looked guilty.


Hail to the Shitgibbon.

Against my better instincts, today I am delving into the political arena. More specifically I plan to talk about the 6'3" shitgibbon from Queens.

I've seen a lot of insults hurled at the man who grew up not far from my two NYC residences in Jackson Heights and Flushing, and shitgibbon is by far my favorite.

Also, and this needs to be stated, I'm not here to campaign for, or defend, or proselytize for Ms. Clinton, so you can spare me the comments and smack-talking. She strikes me as a politician. I don't have much heart for politicians, but at the very least she has the intellect for the position.

SG (shitgibbon) does not.

Along with countless other attributes one might expect in someone seeking the highest position in the land.

For me, his character defects are all the more glaring considering how he makes hay of his otherworldly business acumen. And has called himself America's favorite billionaire.

If I may paraphrase Lloyd Bensen, "I have shaken hands with America's favorite billionaires and I can tell you Sir Gibbon, you are not one of them."

Though I'm only 44 years old, I've had the pleasure of meeting several billionaires or, at the very least, multi-millionaire CEOs: Bob Iger (Disney), Tom Siebel (Siebel Systems), Elena Ford (Ford) and through one or two degrees of separation, Warren Buffet (Warren Buffet).

I'm not saying that in any kind of braggadocious manner. I'm just saying I've had personal contact with folks with bigly money.

Despite their varying wealth, stature and political leanings, these were people who carried themselves with a certain air. They spoke eloquently. They had a sense of who they were and their place in this world because they had a more than rudimentary knowledge of history, a sense of diplomacy, and a general abidance to play within the rules of the game.

In layman's terms, they had class and decency.

Shitgibbon, I'll use his formal name, has none.

NONE.

Unfit for POTUS?

His vulgarian surliness makes him unfit for a clerical position at the DMV. That's a pretty low bar.

The man has no ability to restrain himself and pick his battles. Witness his recent 3 AM twitter bombs launched at a disgruntled former beauty queen. I could stroll into my local Starbucks and have a 100% chance of finding someone with a more suitable temperament.

"You, over-caffeinated guy with the wool knit cap and the shaky hands, working on that stupid screenplay you'll never sell, come over and put your right hand on the bible."

Our domestic problems are solvable and I have no doubt we can ride the ups and downs of poor infrastructure, unfair income distribution and social unrest.

But with the rise of Islamic terrorism, fluid superpower dynamics and escalating regional conflicts -- is anybody paying attention to Pakistan and India right this second? -- we are just a few bad decisions away from a total nuclear meltdown.

Do we want to trust the fate of the human race to a merkin-sporting, illiterate, billionaire shitgibbon whose fuse is even shorter than his tiny dick?


Who wants pie?

If it happened once, it might not be worth writing about.

Twice, and I could chalk it up to misguided coincidence.

But the Pie Chart is now making a regular appearance on advertising briefs and I cannot let it go.

Well, 27% of me wants to let it go but 73% of me says otherwise.

This is now a thing.

Planners are not happy to do their job and find for us the single unique selling proposition, they've taken the extra step to find two. Sometimes three.

And because they are so committed to bringing their strategic insights to life, they have thoughtfully prescribed an informative ratio to guide us through the heretofore un-navigationable forest of dichotomous communication.

Due to signed NDA's and delicate agency sensitivities, I can't mention names or cite specifics, not that it matters as this is becoming acceptable point of procedure wherever I go, but I have seen pie charts for:

Look, there isn't a household in America without a DVR. Even poor Appalachian ginseng root pullers, who don't have two shoes to their name, possess the ability to fast forward through our ridiculously-labored commercials for heartburn relief and disposable adult diapers.

And is there anyone who doesn't hit the SKIP ADS button on youtube?

There are literally 38 people in this great country of ours that actually see TV spots. And now we want them to split their minuscule attention spans along some fakakta proportions that make sense to no one but our navel-gazing MBAs?

Good Night Nurse!

The quantification and commoditization of what we do, what we create and what we say is the clearest indication that people who profess to have an insight into human behavior and acumen in the field of communications, have none.

Perhaps I'm not making myself clear.

Maybe this will help:


If you look at the end of any Apple commercial you'll see the apple logo.

What's more telling however, is what you won't see.

It doesn't say Apple.
There's no phone number to call.
There's not even a hashtag.

It's just a silhouette of an apple with a bite taken out of it.

It's rumored that a few lieutenants asked Steve Jobs to include all that additional information. It's also rumored that he answered them...

"Why the fuck do I want to make it harder for consumers to remember our spots? If they're interested they'll find us. I think they're smart enough to do that. And if they're not that smart they can jump on Windows 95."

Well, apparently the marketing genii at Hilton never got that memo. I've been seeing a bunch of Hilton commercials lately, and believe me, they're all indistinguishable from each other. I see what's on the air and I troll through my files from last year's Hilton pitch and can't help wondering...

"Really?"

But that's not even the point of today's rant.

Having endured 27 seconds of hospitality tropes that have more wear and tear on them than the hallway carpets at the Flamingo Hotel in Las Vegas, the consumer is assaulted with an eye chart of proud Hilton properties (see above).

14 properties in all.

Once again, leaving me to wonder, "Really?"

What purpose could it possibly serve? And mind you this is 3 seconds out of 30, that's a full 10% of the messaging unit.

Let's say I'm intrigued by the pristine well-made queen size beds, lured by the sparkling indoor pool, and convinced by the khaki-pants wearing business fellow eating gourmet scrambled eggs and bacon served by an unnaturally happy room service attendant.

And let's say I book my room at the downtown Topeka Hilton for just $149 a night (offer not valid Thursdays thru Sundays).

Why on earth do I need to know that the mother company also operates the Doubletree in Fairbanks, Alaska? Or the Hampton Inn, in Middletown, NY?

If it were me, I'd sell off the Embassy Suites, and use the proceeds of the sale to open up the walls on the remaining 13 properties and put some goddamn soundproofing insulation between the goddamn rooms.

s some of you might know I've made a habit of posting photos on Thursdays.

Lately this habit has become a routine because the last two months have been the busiest stretch in my almost 13 years of freelancing.

Plus, I'm trying to crank out a book.

Anyway, when I do get free time I like to hike up to the Baldwin Hills Overlook. It's a 1.4 mile walk from my front door to the trailhead. Then I go up and down the mountain (hill) 2-3 times, and then I'll hump it back. Usually with the aid of some Tylenol stuffed in my cargo shorts. All total, it's a good 6-7 mile trek. And 1000 burned calories.

On the walk I always spot something unusual. Like this pink scrap of paper littered on the sidewalk, ironically depicting a pig.

But I also spotted some interesting guerrilla artwork that makes a no less ironic statement on today's pop culture.

I'd appreciate it if you'd  Like this post and Share it.

Thanks.

Hump this.


Years ago someone on Facebook posted a picture of himself, or herself, leaning against a 1978 lime green Plymouth Duster that was parked in the driveway of their parents old ranch style house. The picture started accumulating Likes and soon friends and family started digging through their shoeboxes full of old photo's and joined the fray.

This gave birth to #TBT.

Or Throwback Thursdays.

It seems people enjoy seeing themselves from the glory days gone by. They like the old styles, the thinner waistlines and the unreceded hairlines.

You know what else people like? Leaving the office at a decent hour.

But the taskmasters, whether they be advertising holding company officers or that douche and a half CEO from Wells Fargo, don't see it that way. They want us chained to our desks, pinned to our pens in the cubicle farm or locked, stocked and barreled to the long community tables until the wee hours of the morning.

Not to mention Saturdays and Sundays.

Why?

Well it doesn't take a United States Senator from Massachusetts to see why. It's all about money. They want more of it. And that means giving you less of it. They can reduce the cost of labor by increasing the number of billable man hours. See inverse relationships.

The 12-14 hour work day has become so commonplace in advertising, that many agencies have regular dinner service. Some have even contracted with dry cleaners, car washers and personal concierge services, you know to take care of those personal life responsibilities that can sometimes get in the way of...wait, I want to get this right..."doing great work."

Wow, if you're buying that I've got a Supplementary Low Cost Wells Fargo Savings Account I'd like to get you into.

I'm sorry my friends, you've been hoodwinked. Bamboozled. You didn't do Cannes Lion winning work. And you're not going to Cannes anytime soon.

It's high time we started taking back our time.

So, in the spirit of #TBT, I'm introducing #WOHW -- We're Out of Here Wednesdays.

Tonight, when the Assistant Associate Planner comes sniffing around to see whether you'd like Pizza or Pad Thai Noodles, take a pass. Tell him or her, you have other plans for the evening. Plans that don't involve banner ads, brand engagement units or content generation.

Tell him or her you won't be around email, or any other mobile device, so that round twenty three of revisions to make the copy more urgent will have to wait until the morning.

Tell him or her that you understand the importance of the $500 million new business pitch, but that you were only handed the brief two hours ago, and you haven't 'cracked it' yet.

At 6 PM tonight, and on every Wednesday thereafter, go home.
Make your colleagues go home.
Make your colleague's colleagues go home.

At 6 PM tonight we need to SHUT IT DOWN.

Go home. I'm already there.

Oh and don't forget to shop at the No Mas SweatShop.


The goats like it.

I'm often asked, by other creatives just setting foot in the freelance pool, "How can you work at home? Don't you get lonely?"

"Lonely?" I say, "are you kidding?"

I have me.

I have my dog.

And when I need a distraction or the opportunity to interact, I have 1.5 billion people to troll on Facebook or Linkedin, where the gamut of stimulating conversation can run from Ted Cruz's latest re-entry into the political arena to the newest stuffed crust offerings from Pizza Hut; they put grilled cheese in the crust.

If that doesn't have Americans eating their pizza backwards, I don't know what will.

I also happen to be at my best when I'm left alone in a quiet environment where I can think and focus and eat with my mouth open.

Lest you think I have no live human contact with the outside world, there are always the robocalls. For reasons unknown, we still have a landline in the house. And perhaps due to some bad early potty training, I have been programmed to answer a ringing phone.

But this is where it gets good. Because the only people calling me on the landline are the solicitors and the scammers. And I'm guessing you already know how I feel about them.

"This is the Internal Revenue Service calling about case # 285739. This is a serious matter. Ignoring this case may result in a summons and an appearance before a magistrate, judge of federal grand jury..."

"Hello...this is Rich Siegel...is something wrong?"

"This is the Internal Revenue Service (in an Indian or Pakistani accent no less) regarding an outstanding bill that must be paid immediately..."

"I know exactly what this is about."

"Sir let me give you an address to send the money."

"It's about my Goat Insemination Business that I run on the side isn't it?"

"Wait, what?"

"You know extracting sperm from goats for artificial insemination."

"Sir, you can wire the money immediately to avoid any penalties."

"I knew we shouldn't have taken those deductions but my accountant insisted. Look, sometimes the goats aren't in the mood. So we bought goat aphrodisiacs. We spent money on some Marvin Gaye music, you know to get the goats hot and bothered. We even purchased this special goat lube to apply to the goat penis..."

"Sir I do not want to hear your filthy degenerate stories. (this is often accompanied by colorful cursing in Urdu)"

"That's what I told my accountant.  But he said these were legitimate expenses and that we could even take a credit for the electronic goat prostate massager."

CLICK

The way I see it, the choice is simple.

I could be in an office, sitting in a conference room with some account folks and planners, carefully dissecting the behavior of tortilla chip consumers and the intricacies of the tortilla chip purchase funnel.

Or, I could be yanking the chain of a bearded flim flam man sitting in a boiler room in Islamabad hoping to skim some skin out of some poor American retiree's 401K plan.

If I ever needed a 'thought-starter', I choose the latter.


Last Saturday, was the one year anniversary of my previous book release, RoundSeventeen & 1/2, the Names Have Been Changed to Protect the Inefficient.

Thanks to the thousands of you who never shelled out 12 bucks to support your almost favorite blogger, it's currently sitting comfortable as the 1, 239,754th bestseller on Amazon.

My hope was to release my new book (pictured above) on September 17th of this year, but since I am the world's worst typist and have mercilessly terrorized the English language with grammatical errors and poor syntax, the book is still lingering in its proofreading stage.

Part of me was hesitant to publish a picture of the cover and any news about the upcoming book's release for fear of stealing its thunder. There's a genuine risk that any preview could deflate the pent up demand for this page-turning compilation of the best and bile-filled advertising rants from the past 8 years.

And then the haze from my codeine-enhanced cough medicine wore off.

The Big Book of Rants, a Genetleman's Bathroom Companion to a Life in Advertising, coming soon to a dusty digital bookshelf where it will sit eternally unread.

Next to this.


And this.


Had an interesting discussion the other day with a colleague and fellow freelancer. Actually, it wasn't a discussion -- people don't talk on the phone or otherwise anymore -- it was a series of texts via the wonky Facebook chat interface.

I was texting from my iPhone while high atop the Baldwin Hills overlook. And he was texting from the exact same seat and desk I had been occupying just one week earlier.

You can draw your own conclusions, but the discussion, as it were, was about the finicky nature of freelancing.

As my colleague pointed out, at one place you can be the hero who can "write like nobody else we have on staff." And the very next week you can find yourself working for another agency who, and this part I'll paraphrase, "writes shit like everybody else."

And so in the course of my 44 years circling the sun, I've developed a thick skin. A very, very thick skin, which like a camera, adds 10 lbs. to my appearance.

I also try to maintain an even keel about the work and the responses to the work. When there is high praise, and occasionally that happens, I'll blush a little and politely say thanks. I don't let it get to my head and start wondering if I should start wearing an ascot or an earring or some other affectation that  says, "look at me, I'm special."

Where do people even buy ascots?

I also remind myself there are a shit ton of better writers out there. I came across another freelancer while on linked.com and he had a wealth of great work that turned me 50 shades of green. He did a great campaign with NFL players for the United Way that's buried on the back pages of his portfolio.

That's how good he is.
I'd hire him in a heartbeat over me.
And that's why I'm not sharing his name.

Conversely, I don't get my Hanes 36-Inch Tagless No-Ride-Up Briefs with the Comfort Flex™ Waistband tied in a bunch when someone sets fire to one of my scripts. Or as one creative director put it so eloquently and with no small measure of disdain...

"This feels like something Goodby would have done in the mid-90's."

Wow.

If memory serves me correct, Goodby Silverstein and Partners were enjoying the height of their success in the mid 1990's. I would think most agencies would be lucky to recreate work of that caliber. When did that become a pejorative?

What do I know?

I try not to let that get to me. Or as my colleague reminds me, it's the rollercoaster nature of the business.

Problem is, I see the kind of work that gets killed and the work that gets produced and am reminded of a different stomach-grinding amusement park ride and it's appropriate nickname -- the Vomitron.

Perhaps you're familiar with it.


We visited some friends recently who had just finished painting their living room. Naturally, as guests and being of excessive politeness, we said it looked beautiful. Unable to let a sleeping dog lie however, I made further inquiry.

"What color was it before?"

"It was Snowbound White 7004."

"And now?"

"We went with Toque White 7003."

"Lovely. Just lovely."

And that, in a nutshell is where we are at in Advertising 2016.

Trying to move an apathetic, largely-disinterested audience with fragmented media and a monumentally-bland message that is barely two Angstrom units to the right or left of the same incomprehensible strategy used by the nearest competitor.

Witness the Lexus commercials that look like Acura commercials.
Coke spots that could easily be mistaken for Pepsi spots.
And Windows ads that bear an uncanny resemblance to those from Apple.
(Though to be fair that seems to be MicroSoft's entire modus operandi.)

I'm happy to take money from clients and marketers who think terms like Motivated Achievers or Ambitious Challengers or Extroverted Innovators are useful demographic delineators.

Or agencies who believe their insightful one-of-a-kind briefs are different than another agency's identical insightful one-of-a-kind brief.

Or anyone who thinks they can build a successful brand with tweets, Insties and Snapfaps™.

The truth is they're all playing in the same sandbox. And at some point, the turd left by the cat has to be removed.

It's all such small ball.

And maybe when you're dealing with parity products and parity services it's impossible to raise the flag of true differentiation. But hell, what happened to swinging for the fences? To saying something nobody else was saying? And doing it in a way no one was else was doing?

The other truth is, if you're not doing something radically different, you're doing everything radically wrong.

But I don't expect anything to change. And until then, I'll just keep creating social media scavenger hunts that will never get produced. Conjuring up brand activation stunts that will never get activated. And writing meaningless, micro-targeted TV spots aimed at Perseverant Non-Traditional Influencers.

Whatever the fuck that means.


For the last couple of weeks I have been going into an office. It was a refreshing change of pace as most of my work is done at home. From the comfort of my man cave. With my snacks and my napping couch always nearby.

As agencies go, the place I was going to was great.

They put my partner and I in a real office. With a window. And a door that closed. And a couple of Herman Miller chairs that eased our aging backs. It was the kind of respect and professionalism one rarely sees these days.

Rarely.

Once handed the brief, we wasted no time cranking out the work. Freelancers are expected to spit out massive quantities of work and 10 TV scripts in the course of one day meets that criteria.

In between the generation of ideas, my art director partner and I did what all creative teams do in order to answer the brief -- we shot the shit.

We talked about this.
And that.

Him.
And her.

And of course, we talked about that universal assnugget account guy we all know and hate. This assnugget doesn't have a name, or even a body. He or she is simply an amalgamation of all the assnuggets we have come in contact with over the years -- the screamer, the skirtchaser, the incompetent anti-Mensa, and the drunken drug addict who manages to fit all the criteria.

There was also the ceremonial telling of the war stories.

It was at this point that my partner told me of the time he was freelancing for a NYC agency. This was a shop that on their very best day, might, with some luck and the odd alignment of the stars, do something that could qualify as mediocre.

They never aspired to greatness or fooled themselves into thinking otherwise. And for not giving any lip service to that notion, as many do, and having a realistic assessment of their abilities, I will give them credit.

After a week of concepting, keep in mind this was a while ago, my partner and his writer were asked to show work to the Creative Director, who brought them into his fancy NYC office, sat them on the couch, and queried, "Where's your Rig?"

Not knowing what to make of the situation, my partner replied, "Huh?"

Turns out this was an agency that had made a name for themselves with jingles. So the Creative Director was expecting jingles. And the Rig in question, was a Cassio Keyboard (as seen in the picture above.)

I know there are people in the industry that make a living that way and solve complex marketing problems with little musical ditties, but my partner and I are not those people. He left the agency shortly thereafter. With nothing more than a check and a great little war story.

"Where's your Rig?"

I love that.


It's been a busy week.

It's been a busy month.

It's been a busy summer.

So today I'm going to give myself a break and let my iPhone do the talking.

The photo above was snapped while walking to the Baldwin Hills Overlook in south Culver City. A walk my wife and I will be doing on fewer occasion given the shrinking daylight hours.

This nihilistic minivan owner caught my eye.

But it wasn't the only decal worth noting.

If only clients had a similar sense of humor.

Enjoy...


There's a scene I have stuck in my head.

It might have been from Seinfeld.
Or Curb your Enthusiasm.
Or Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee.

Here's a hint, they're all the same.

In the scene, Jerry/Larry sits in a diner with a friend who starts scanning the breakfast menu. Jerry/Larry confronts the friend.

"It's breakfast. You never had breakfast before? You need a menu to order breakfast?"

If you were to read that previous line with a New York Jewish accent, it would seem that much funnier.

I bring this up because we, in the ad agency world, seem to be replaying this scene on a daily basis. We meet with our clients and hand them an incomprehensible, overwhelming, massively confusing menu of options.

It's as if the quantity of non-Disruptive™, non-paradigm shifting™, non-viral sharing™ideas laid upon their table could somehow mask the underwhelming quality of the ideas.

I have literally witnessed 300-page plus presentation decks, that if launched from a shoulder-mounted RPG could easily rip a hole through a steel reinforced cement bunker.

Not to sound like a 44-year old broken record player, but I can remember a simpler time when days before an important presentation, one of my supremely-confident and visionary bosses like Clow or Hayden or Lubars would say...

"If we go in with three options, they're going to pick the weakest one. Let's just show them One."

One campaign.

Three TV spots.

Some print to back it up.

Maybe a radio script, no one would listen to.

One.

Done.

That presentation would be no thicker than the Instruction Manual for Apple's new Air Pods.

Wouldn't that be refreshing? Maybe then we could restore some semblance of the work/life balance? By culling the herd and eliminating the Frivolous Fuckwadian Digital Knick Knacks™ we might actually start having fun again.

I'll bet agency people would be happy.

And clients would be even happier.

We haven't shot ourselves in the foot.

We're hobbling around on crutches because we dropped an 85 lbs. PowerPoint deck on our collective Metatarsal.


It is roughly 7.3 miles from the heart of Culver City to the heart of Santa Monica, California. Or 11 minutes as the crow flies.

Of course if you were a crow in a cage and that cage were in the backseat of 2007 Lexus, it could take you well over an hour and twenty minutes.

That's assuming the assnuggets on the 405 and the 10 are not busy texting or doing Pilates or eating sushi with chopsticks (actually seen that), or doing anything but driving their goddamned cars.

And so this week, and the past two weeks, I have been straphanging. Riding the recently completed Expo Line and enjoying the fruits of my oversized tax deductions.

As a verified ferroequinolist, or railfan for the layman, I can tell you our Southern California steel horses are quite different than others.

In Paris for example it is not unusual to still spot the locals, particularly the older ones, lighting up a cigarette on the train. Or making out. Or both.

In London, you'd be hard pressed to find any litter on the Tube. Maybe it was the part of town I was in, but the trains were spotless.

In Germany, for obvious reasons, I chose not to ride the trains during my ill-fated trip to Deutschland.

Of course, when it comes to trains, and subways more specifically, nothing can compete with the Big Apple.

As a teenager, I worked at my dad's office in lower Chelsea and had ample opportunity to ride the rails. Part of me wishes I had stayed in NYC, if only for the colorful dialogue, the conflagrations and the jawdropping oddities one can only witness on the Pelham 123.

If there is a heaven, you can keep your white robes and violins, I'll take a front row plastic seat on the Number 7 Line and an eternal ricketty ride through the human zooscape that is the Big Apple.

Sadly, the current ride to Santa Monica offers little in the way of people gawking. Sure, there's a pleasant diversity of Hispanic housemaids and African American bike messengers, and hipster media workers with their handlebar mustaches and Melrose avenue man-purses, but little in the way of unusual.

Yesterday, I saw a Pakistani guy holding two iPhones. He was wired into an old episode of Seinfeld on one phone while playing Candy Crush/Farmville/or some other stupid ass video nonsense on the other.

Yawn.

This week, I'm hoping for something more exciting, something in a New York State of Mind.

This for instance would make my day:

There is nothing so wonderful as getting booked on a new gig.

It's one part, "Holy shit, I fooled them again."

Mixed with another financial part along the lines of, "great we don't have to eat ketchup packet sandwiches next week."

If you're like most people, according to the Department of Labor statistics, you get a new job once every 2.7 years. But when you're a freelancer like myself, and an increasing number of my readers, you get "hired" for a new job 13-18 times a year.

It's great.
And then, it's not so great.

Because each of these 13-18 new employers has their own onboarding -- god I hate that word-- procedures, including new applications, new identification methods, new invoicing, new timesheet, and enough federal regulation compliance papers to choke a small industrial shredding machine.

On the Pain In The Ass Scale of 1-10, it's a 94.

Years ago, men had this fetishized thing about letting a gerbil run up a toilet paper tube to massage their prostate. Replace that gerbil with a snaggletooth piranha. And then fill out this I9/gwq-K form and have it notarized. In triplicate.

That's what it feels like.

Years ago, one unnamed agency sent me the pdf of their new employee paperwork. Mind you this was for a three day gig. I printed it out and it was no less than 78 pages. They wanted ID forms. They wanted me to read a Code of Conduct manual. They wanted me to know where all the fire exits were. And they wanted copies of my high school transcripts with a full description of why I requested an exemption from Rope Climbing. (Chapter Seven in my upcoming new book -- Things Jews Don't Do).

The pundits claim ad agencies have failed to maintain pace with digital technology. That's not true. Because HR Departments are now migrating the entire onboarding process to a computer or mobile device near you.

You'd think that by utilizing all the whiz bang technology available at our fingertips that the whole thing would be a breeze -- that with autofill, electronic signatures, and intuitive tabbing, it'd be wham-bam thank you Omnicam. You'd be wrong.

How wrong, you ask?

I am by no means singling out Omnicom, because this takes place across the board at all the holding companies. But the process can be so daunting, that one agency and their third party onboarding partners put out this helpful video on how to fill out your timesheet .

Which of course begs the question, 'Is there a pamphlet that explains how to upload the how to video about how to fill out the timesheet?'

Not long ago, I completed a job for another unnamed agency. Keep in mind, I passed several college level courses in differential calculus, so I don't consider myself a dullard, or a Texas Congressman, but their invoicing procedure was so complicated and so fraught with technicalities it required 12 emails with four separate HR team members.

That's a lot of wasted man hours and loss of productivity.

Or, in terms that ad agency people can understand, that's one less bottle of Chateaunef du Pape in Cannes next year.


Newsflash: celebrities die.

Sure, they lead different lives than the rest of us civilians. They're the first ones to board a plane, often enjoying their tall flute of champagne before the schlubs in Boarding Section Q start lugging their torn Samsonites with the one wobbly wheel back to Seat 79D, three inches from the toilet, and 5 hours of errant blue water mist.

But at the end of the day, or the end of 70+ years, the mortuary assistant puts their pants on one leg at a time. Just like you, me and Betty Bag O'Donuts.

Last week, following an abnormally long list of celebrities who have gone to the other side in 2016, it was Gene Wilder's turn.

I loved Gene Wilder as much as the next fellow.

Young Frankenstein, Blazing Saddles, the Producers,  he was great, blah, blah, blah. But let's be honest, I haven't seen or heard his name in the last three years, so his departure is hardly going to...wait, I want to quote somebody on Facebook...

"leave a gaping hole in my comedic soul that is still fresh from the emotional crater left by Robin William's departure."

I don't want to seem hardhearted, but it's hard not to laugh at the stream of the overwrought postmortems that flood social media the minute some actor, actress or musician kicks the can.

And the bigger they are, the sappier it all gets. When Prince left us...

"I feel like a purple shroud has been draped over my heart, blinding to me to any possible happiness that may be on the horizon. I am crushed beyond words and will no doubt emerge a lesser man."

Not to be outdone, the David Bowie fangirls and fanguys had a field day...

"If there is a God, he or she is no doubt enjoying a front row seat to the eternal genius that was Bowie. Take me now, Lord, so that I may sit next to you for one more stirring encore of China Girl."

Puuuhhhhlease!

When I heard of Gene Wilder's passing, I thought, "damn, he was funny." I still remember seeing him in a hilarious scene when Zero Mostel tells him how their plan has gone terribly wrong and may result in a prison sentence. Wilder has a tantrum and to calm him down Mostel throws a glass of water in his face.

"I'm wet. I'm hysterical. And I'm wet."

The news did not debilitate me, rendering me useless for the rest of the day. I had some banner ads to write, so I moved on.

Besides, when all is said and done, the genius behind all the laughter doesn't come from the guy reading the lines it comes from the guy writing them, Mel Brooks.

When he passes, I'll be crushed.


Last week, the SuperDesk™ and the agency where it is currently parked, the Barbarian Group, were in the news again.

I don't know anything about the Group.
I don't know the work they do.
I don't know the Creative Directors there.
And I don't know if I'll ever do any projects for them.
I'm guessing I won't.

But I am intimately familiar with their iconic SuperDesk™ and perpetually amused how the brass at the Barbarian Group tried to pawn this tool of the sweatshop culture upon the other Barbarians. And it explains why I am not surprised to hear of the continuing woes of the agency.

If we've learned anything from this architectural monstrosity it's that people who work in advertising are the most cynical, skeptical, and leery people on the planet. And they see this Escher-like ribbon of collaboration malarkey for exactly what it is -- Bullshit.

And guess what overpaid, pollyanna, concoctors of corporate Kool Aid (I'm talking to you, ad leaders) that's exactly what you want in an ad person.

Because people who can spot bullshit from across state lines are your best bet to create real advertising and real communications that will resonate with real people.

You want the doubters.
You want the eye rollers.
You want the ones who are willing put their foot down, look a planner or a client or a CEO in the eye and say, "we can spend 100 million dollars on this, or 100 billion, but people are not going to eat their pizza backwards. They're just not."

We sell ourselves to clients as experts in the human condition. We tell them we examine all the data, we produce magical insights and change the business landscape with our disruptive inescapable truths™.

Well, digging for game changing truths requires the ability to sort through the spin, discarding the hubris and calling out the bullcockery.

Years ago, when I was at Chiat/Day --possibly the most annoying phrase ever written -- they moved us into the famed binocular building in Venice. Before the big transition, Jay brilliantly announced we were going to pioneer the Virtual Office™. Unless you're a fan of carnival midway games, it was all just a sham.

We, the employees, were going to a virtual office only because there wasn't enough space for us to have real offices to go to.

There's an old maxim that says: you can't bullshit a bullshit artist.

To that I would add...

To assemble the best team of bullshit artists you need people who can spot bullshit.

Yes, I am available.

I was having lunch with a colleague years ago. Actually he's only half a colleague. He's a director/copywriter. He was telling me a common story among those who lens. (Did I just use lens as a verb? How very Hollywood of me.)

He said his directing career was going like gangbusters. A pilot here. A short there. And multiple multiple-package spots that had paid off his mortgage for months to come and vanquished the disgusting notion of ever returning to the copywriting field.

And then it happened. The phone simply stopped ringing.

It wasn't cause he had laid an egg. Or dropped a turd in the punchbowl -- and when I use that phrase it's not figuratively, I hang with a crude bunch of scatological people who have the collective maturity of a 14 year old.

When it came to new projects, his name simply never popped up.

I suspect the same thing has happened to many of the A-list directors who normally came courting me for gigs. Oh how I miss those fancy lunches and dinners. The thinly veiled fawning and plastic deference. And the swag; all those production company logo emblazoned t-shirts, coffee mugs and beach towels.

I wonder where they all are now.

Not surprisingly, the dead phone phenomena is a recurring nightmare for me as well. Even though I am only 44 years old, there is no reason to suspect that it couldn't happen any day.

In fact, on June 23, 2016, I was sure it did.

I told my wife, "this is it. There's a tidal wave of change coming to the adworld. Holding companies keep laying off the experienced staff people. They keep hiring these inexpensive kids who scoff at 75 hour work weeks and put in 100. And I can't walk to Jackson Market without bumping into another freelancer wondering where all the work went. We're gonna have to sell the house and buy a double wide in Sioux City and live off the $6,953 of profits I made on the Apple Stock. We're fucked."

She, having heard this about a million times before, opened the pantry, bent over to look at the bottom shelf and with passing disdain, "You bought the wrong garbage bags again."

As I've documented lately, she was right and I was, well, less than right.

The phone did ring again. With a vengeance. I've worked on a stunning variety of projects. From one of the nation's largest financial institutions to a laundry detergent scent freshener to the incredible Legends in Concert, the longest running and most successful tribute artist show in Las Vegas, where for the price a good cut of prime rib, you can enjoy the entertainment stylings of Lady Gaga, Michael Jackson and the Blues Brothers, all on one stage.

I even have 2-3 spots going into production.

It's been a cornucopia of assignments. And it's showing no signs of letting up.

But as my friend warned me, while stuffing his face with lamb schwarma, the phone can and will, without any warning, stop ringing at any moment.

Sioux City, here we come.

Paging Mr. Steckler

I love this letter.

I know it's been floating around the inter webs for ages now, but it resurfaced last week and I was reminded how much I love this letter.

In three short paragraphs, Mick Jagger, an accomplished songwriter, manages to encapsulate the entire drama of someone who finds themselves at the crossroads of art and commerce.

If we allow ourselves the assumptive leap to advertising, it's clear that Mick Jagger would be the ideal client. One who understands that great breakthrough thinking demands time, freedom and, most importantly, commensurate remuneration.

Think how different the airwaves would look and how little the Skip Ad button would be clicked or the DVR fast forward button utilized if we were given the same parameters.

The same parameters that produced this iconic piece of work.




That is not the case.

Nor is the most difficult part of our job creating such eye-popping material.

The hardest part of our job is convincing the Al Stecklers' of this world to take the leap forward with us. Something I learned quite recently.

Last week, an ad industry legend offered this choice piece of advice to students:

"Create as if you want to get fired."

We did that with one of our clients.

Mission accomplished.



Today is the last day of August. If the trend continues as it has, it will be the highest trafficked month in the 8 &1/2 year history of RoundSeventeen. That means nothing to you, but it's a major milestone for me.

Don't forget, I'm no longer a staff guy at an agency so I don't have the jubilant moments you still get to enjoy...

"That was a great meeting!"

"Did you see the way the client was smiling when I read the tagline?"

"I have my fingers crossed, but I'm pretty sure they're gonna let us take this work into focus groups. Woo Hoooo!!!!!!!"

So why the sudden jump in web traffic, you might be asking, but probably are not. A few weeks ago, I posted a little political commentary regarding Trump's nefarious association with Russia.


It got more than 1000 shares on Facebook and Twitter. And, I suspect, led people to my little blog. At least that's what the Google analytics tell me. This little meme floated all around the Mother country.

So to pander to all my new Russian followers, and because I simply can't get enough of Russian Dating Sites, I'm revisiting сайт знакомств трут.



 Say hello to Elanya, a full-figured gal looking for a full-figured man who "enjoys Air Supply, monster truck demolition derbies and discotheque." She's marriage-minded and wants to meet a man who can complete her. Preferably one who also has a speaker for a Panasonic KB9077 Series B beat box player.



  Meet Malvina. As you can see from the crayon markings on the kitchen wall, Malvina is a single mom, widowed when her husband Petrov choked in a Vodka/Cheesecake eating contest. According to her bio, she is a sturdy woman, of fine character and has an admirable collection of pots and pans.



  Yaraslava is a party girl. Actually, she was a party girl. Though her picture mistakenly remains on the dating site, she met her dream man, Alexei, seen here:


Sadly, there were no wedding pictures to be shared.

Finally, there is Raisa.


Her picture and profile have been up for quite some time. Unfortunately no Russian suitor has swiped right. This has led to many heated discussions here at RoundSeventeen headquarters. The staff and I agree it has little to do with the jorts or the exposed midriff or even the dated linoleum.

Girl, we know it's difficult, but you gotta give up the ciggies.


No vacation for you

If you were to look at my dropbox and the many files added, tweaked, revised and re-revised last week you'd have a hard time telling I was on vacation. But I was.

At least the freelancer's version of a vacation.

One of the perils of my current position is never being able to schedule anything in advance. Because as the world would have it, jobs, assignments, projects, never come up when I'm looking for them. But always come up when I plan to wind it down.

Before my oldest daughter returns to college for her junior year or as I like to call it, "The $110,000 - $135,000 Semester", my wife thought it would be great to rent a little cottage in Newport Beach and just slum around for a few days.

She found this little frumpy flop house, a block from the sand, and we were in walking distance to a bevy of seaside restaurants and little dive bars where 60 year old surfers still wear tank tops and speak in monosyllabic beach slang.

"Bra...dude...curl...tube...gnarlatious."

Of course, as luck would have it, I also got a call from an agency that had never called before, so it was not one I could turn down. Or turn over to my many freelance copywriting friends eager to soak up my leftovers.

So while my wife and daughter were tanning on the beach, I was writing commercials.

While my wife and daughter were riding rental bikes between the piers, I was writing commercials.

While my wife and daughter were drinking mojitos made with fresh mint from our garden, I was writing commercials.

Ok, I was drinking mojitos too.

Drinking and writing are natural dance partners. See Hemmingway, see Bukowski, see Hepinstall.

But don't start the pity party just yet.

As any freelancer will tell you, there's something comforting in being booked, especially when you're an aging 44 year old copywriter. And it's sort of nice knowing the vacation you're partially enjoying is paid for in its entirety.

One night, we went to the Crab Cooker, a longstanding Newport Beach institution. There, knowing I was working and had earned a well-deserved reward, I ordered the market price lobster. I'm half Scottish and half Jewish and given to self denial. Meaning, I never order the market price lobster.

But I fought off the guilt and was eagerly looking forward to cracking into that inordinately expensive red shell, digging out the fleshy nectar of the gods and dipping it in high caloric melted butter.

You can imagine my disappointment when the waitress put the plate in front of me and explained how the lobster had been pre-shelled, cooked on a grill and placed on a skewer. It had all the visual appeal of a dirty dish sponge. And was 180 degrees from a Red Lobster TV spot.

OK, now you can start the pity party.

Mmmm, unprocessed rib eye steak

Years ago, so long ago I sometimes have to wonder whether it really happened or if it was product of my imagination, my father purchased a dairy farm in Upstate New York.

Not upstate like Rockland County, a bedroom community just outside of New York City, reachable with a good titanium driver and few well placed fairway shots.

But upstate, upstate. In the northern reaches of the Empire State, where the locals had never eaten a bagel or met a Puerto Rican.

In many respects, my father was like a well-educated Ralph Kramden, always believing the next get rich scheme was just around the corner. Or in this case, 379 miles due north of Jerome Avenue in the Bronx.

Al, and another of unlikely partners, I believe his name was Irving, Murray or Schmuelly, purchased a small farm with a herd of 30 or so cows. The idea was to run the farm at a loss -- which turned out not to be too difficult. And thus he and his partners would have a legitimate tax loss, thereby pocketing oodles of money that would have been earmarked for the IRS.

Back in the day, my father ran with a streetwise crowd which included many guidos, I hope that term is not off limits. Apologies in advance to my Italian-American friends. When I was a kid, once a month, on Tuesdays nights, some of these crooked-nosed, truck-diverting fellows came to our apartment in Jackson Heights to smoke cigarettes, drink beer and play poker.

So, it is not out of the question to believe the dairy farm, could also have been a front. That is, an enterprise for Jimmy Two Times or Freddie The Runt to launder bundles of cash. I was in California and the milking, such as it was, was taking place 3000 miles away. So I just don't know.

I do know that had my brother and I been anywhere in the vicinity of the farm, my father would have put us to work. It didn't matter that we were grown men, he would have rousted us from our beds before the sun got up and in his unique forceful manner had us doing chores...

"I brought you into this world, I can take you out. Now get those cows washed before I give you something to cry about."

All of which would have come as a surprise to me because frankly I had no idea cows needed to be washed. All the hamburger and milk is on the inside, so who cares if they get some schmutz on their leather coats.

There can be no doubt, my brother and I would have brought the automatic cow washing machine to his attention. We would have whined and begged until he could take no more and signal his forfeit with a purchase.

You probably didn't know there even was an automatic cow washing machine. I know I didn't.

But my art director partner came across it recently while were were doing an assignment for a state Dairy Association. Naturally, we pitched the cow washing machine as an idea for a campaign. And naturally, the idea died. It went straight to the advertising slaughterhouse, a highly efficient abattoir run by small minded planners, account people and committee think.

The spots practically wrote themselves. And probably would have won a ton of awards.

But then, what do I know?


A few weeks ago my wife did a favor for a colleague. I'd tell you what that favor was, that is if I could remember. But like many husbands I only retain 10% of what she tells me.

5% if I've been taking my cough medicine.

In any case, the favor was returned when that colleague gave my wife a bottle of G.H. Mumm Brut Cordon Rouge champagne, which one reviewer on Vivino described as...

"Crisp citrus acidity and bountiful firm bubbles with good length."

If I've said that once, I've said it a thousand times.

This week we have good reason to pop that sucker.

Not because the 2nd proof of my new book came in and it is almost ready for release.

Not because my white trash neighbor seems to be inching closer and closer to self-destruction.

And not because my dance card has been filled to the brim with well-paying clients.

The reason for celebration is simple -- we are over the hump.

Thanks to the rigging of the system, we have two daughters attending out of state colleges. Scholastically speaking, they were good enough for the state of Washington and the state of Colorado but somehow not good enough for the state of California.

Out of state tuition is almost double that of in state tuition. I could cry Foul or Bullshit or "Attica!" but I'd be wasting my breath.

Last week I made the payment for my first daughter's first semester. I don't need to get into the numbers or show you the picture of the Bentley I could be driving, suffice to say that we have passed the halfway point.

It's all gravy and depleted IRA accounts from here on out.

Of course my wife doesn't drink champagne, and unless one of you want to come over,  it means I'll be drinking it all by myself.

Might be a good way to wash down the prescription cough medicine.

Woo-hoo!


Winston Churchill once said, "You have enemies? Good that means you stood up for something."

Well, in the course of the past 6 months I've made an enemy. Who are we kidding? I've probably made more than one. But this one enemy in particular has now taken to publicly besmirching my good name on the Interwebs.

In accordance with a longstanding rule here at RoundSeventeen, I'm not going to give out his name. This ancient Hebraic tradition dates back to the time of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob and all the goats they begat. As it is written in the Talmud, Rabbi Ezekiel once said,

"Thouest who is besmirched shall not partake in any further besmirching. Or the eating of any Lobster Newburgh."

And though I am prohibited from speaking his name, there is nothing that says I cannot lay out some clues for those who might be curious. As the picture above indicates (not his picture btw), he is a white male. He is given to wearing hoodies or the fashion of the minute. And he sports dreadlocks.

If I know my readers, and I believe I do, that has already caused half of you to whisper, "douchebag" silently in your head.

Let me get the other half on board the bus.

Hipster Bob Marley is also...wait for it...a Planner.

I've taken plenty of shots at Planning on this blog. Perhaps even too many. I've also had a career's worth of good work killed by the scholars in the Planning Department. Had that work left the agency and been approved by the client, I might be writing this piece from my oceanfront home in Malibu as opposed to my dump in Culver City.

So, in my feeble mind, it's somewhat justified.

What I have never done however is aim The Big Pointy Stick of Disdain at any one particular Planner.

NEVER.

Rasta Man thinks differently and recently tweeted that I had "a history of bullying planners, young female planners in particular."

I don't take kindly to professional slander and asked him, point blank, to site the blog piece that backed up his spurious claim. That request went unanswered. A simple cut and paste on his part would have put me in my place.

But De Bredda couldn't post any evidence because there is no evidence.

Recently DanceHall Harry's name popped up in a contentious Facebook thread regarding the topic of creative plagiarism. I'm thoroughly against it. Dutty Money is for it. In a magazine interview he did years ago he was quoted as saying, in his annoying obtuse manner:

"Stealing in our schema of language is not dishonest. It exposes its debt. It uses the reference. It says, 'this is the reference. I'm using it. I'm putting it in here."

Wow.

I've seen some semantic gymnastics, but this guy is a multi-gold medal winner.

Unlike many colleagues, I don't have a ton of achievements in my advertising career. But getting to the very top of this rastafarian gasbag's shitlist counts as one of my proudest.


Last week, I mentioned I got my start in advertising as a Mailroom clerk. I was paid $800 a month. A month! At the time, rent for my shitty apartment in West LA was $400 a month.

So after work, I'd run home, jump out of my mailroom clerk clothes and jump into my short order cook clothes. And work at a nightclub in Santa Monica from 7-Midnight.

My brain hurts just thinking about it.

It would have exploded had I known, or even had an inkling, how much money the top officers at the company were hauling home every two weeks. But this was pre-Internet and pre-social media so there would be no way for me know.

Moreover, and this is the important point, they, meaning the people wallpapering their dens with $100 bills, had the good sense and decorum to keep that shit private. And not in a passive manner. They went out of their way not to flaunt their wealth. They drove crappy cars. Brown bagged their lunches. And even washed their own coffee mugs. To appear grounded. To exhibit some type of modesty.

Why?

Because it was in the best interest of the company not to demoralize the other employees by demonstrating the inequality of the pay scale. This bit of wisdom seems to have been lost. Along with the notion that workers who put in 70 hours Monday thru Friday should take the weekend off to recharge their batteries.

Recently, on her blog Heidi Consults, Heidi writes The Five Reasons Why Your Best Creative People  Will Quit. As someone who has been in the trenches for longer than I want to believe, I can tell you four of the reasons hold no water whatsoever.

Reason #2 however resonates like a 6.7 earthquake.


Which has inspired me to write a little note to my future self.

I'm only 44 years old and I believe the best part of my career is yet to come. Some may think that is delusional, but if you've been a reader here for any amount of time you know I'm an eternal optimist.

If I ever become wealthy -- but Rich you have your health, a loving family and all the blessings a man could want, yeah, well none of that shit pays the two college bursars or the bank with the huge note on the house.

Like I said, if I ever become wealthy, or have my own agency, or land a really sweet staff job, the first thing I'm going to do is buy my family an outrageously expensive membership at a private ski club, I didn't even know those existed.

The second thing I'm going to do is delete my Facebook account.


As the Olympics exit the news cycle, we can welcome back the crazy and oh-so-unpresidential antics of one Donald J. Trump -- the most unqualified candidate to ever take to the political stomp, shake hands and kiss babies.

Or, kick babies out of a rally.

I understand some of you have a visceral disgust with his opponent, Hillary. She's dishonest. She's cunning. And she's manipulative. Newsflash, she's a politician and they all are. In the arena of politics those are not character flaws but attributes for success.

But I'm not here to discuss her worthiness, I'm here to discuss his unworthiness. To put it more succinctly, here are five candidates who are more fit for the Oval Office than Trump:

1. Richie, the talkative HVAC repairman. Months ago, my doctor suggested that my recurring bronchitis could be the result of dirty air. He suggested I give the vents in my house a thorough cleaning. Enter Richie, tatted from head to toe, with enough muscles for two men. Despite looking like a jailhouse lifer, Richie had the gift of gab. A self-taught history buff, he peppered his sales pitch with references to the ancient Greeks, Voltaire and Heinrich Himmler. I believe Richie the talkative HVAC repairman had a better body of knowledge than Cheetoh Jesus and would therefore have my vote. Oh and I'm very happy with the stainless steel filters.

2. Craig, the shit-for-brains account guy. I've had the pleasure of working with some of the brightest people on the planet. That they all work in advertising is a crying shame. Nevertheless, even our not-so-brightest, like Craig, would make a better commander in chief than Trump. Sure, he once left the portfolio on the plane. And yes, there was that time he had us work on a brief that the client never saw. But Craig, the shit-for-brains account guy always made sure the account ran in the black ink. And he kept the client happy. So there was always an opportunity to do another Year End Sales Event.

3. Mr. Jones, my old boy scout troop leader. When I was a kid my father made me join the Boy Scouts. To learn how to make a fire or fight off the local gentiles who'd never met a Jew before. Our troop leader was Mr. Jones, an ex-NYC cop who sported a crew cut and smoked Lucky Strikes. He was about as rigid as they come. He'd tell you where he stood on an issue and never wavered. Once he planned a Winter Klondike Camping Trip. It snowed about a foot and the temperature dropped into the single digits. Did Mr. Jones cancel the campout? No. No, he did not. He's probably dead now, but his cadaver would get my vote.

4. Sarah Palin. She doesn't read. She doesn't write. And in many cases, she doesn't even speak the English language as we know it. She's a special kind of stupid. Nevertheless it's a benign stupid. She never threatened to whip out the nuclear weapons or carpet bomb an area inhabited by civilians. Or jail women who've had an abortion. Or shoot somebody on Fifth Avenue. The fact that we now have a presidential candidate who has done all that, and more, speaks volumes to the clusterfucked situation we find ourselves in.

5. Crow.

This was a thing on Facebook last week.

Apparently everyone was doing it. Which is usually a good reason for me to abstain. I'm not big on following the crowds.

Also, because I was raised by such an authoritarian father who placed an undue emphasis on work and because my life has been so defined by work, I thought a listicle could not do the early section of my resume any justice.

But a blog piece could.

1. Newspaper Delivery Boy -- The kid in my neighborhood who had the franchise was giving it up. Pretty sure he left to go to a Hitler Youth Camp. In any case, I took over. And by chance also snagged another adjoining neighborhood route, essentially giving me two routes. And increasing my chances by 100% that some MILF-y housewife would choose to pay her eternally-horny 14 year old newspaper delivery boy in the fashion favored by Mrs. Robinson. That never happened.

2. Jackster -- I turned 16 (legal employment age) on a February 28. On February 29th, I was hired to be a Jackster at the Spring Valley Jack in the Box on Route 59. It was the very first JIB, built on the east coast. I flipped burgers, fried tacos, swept the parking lot, scrubbed the toilets, and on several occasions donned the clown outfit for lazy parents who threw their kids birthday parties at a Jack in the Box. If I close my eyes and want to torture myself, I can still smell that polyester clown suit with its aromatic mixture of B.O., fryer grease and the tears of many scarred children.

3. College Dormitory Dishwasher -- I could've saved a whole bunch of money had I decided to go to SUNY, the State University of New York. And had acceptance letters from Buffalo, Binghampton and Albany. But my father decided I was going to Syracuse University, one of the most expensive universities in all the land. And that I was going to pay for the privilege. I spent more time in the Brockway Dining Hall dishwashing room than I did at Calculus 101, Biology and Introduction to Russian Literature. "The best four years of your life," I was told. Bullshit.

4. Bartender -- You get a little older, you get a little wiser. By my senior year in college I had managed to convince the financial aid office to subsidize my education. My streetwise father had also done me a solid. He hooked me up with two NYC guys who were in the mob. These 'mafioso' were setting up a new bar on the campus -- essentially to launder cash -- and hired me to be a bartender. They showed me how to mix drinks, though it was hardly a discerning crowd, fed me and paid me extremely well. It was a great job that put me next to the two things I loved most -- alcohol and women.

5. Forklift Driver -- Three weeks after receiving my college sheepskin, I bought a cheap one way ticket to Los Angeles. Didn't know a soul. Had no money. And not a clue what I was doing. But the company that employed my dad also had a distribution warehouse located in Gardena. And when I say Gardena, I mean Compton. Like the scenario from the movie Carwash, I was the sole white boy on the crew. A crew that was largely Crips, Bloods and future Crips and Bloods.

6. Mailroom Clerk -- Who knew that as current CEO of my own company, I'd be joining the ranks of many other CEOs who also got their start in the business world by pushing that damn mail cart around? It was the break of all big breaks. And for that I will always be grateful to the folks at Needham, Harper & Steers or as we affectionately called them Needless Hard-ons & Tears. You can learn a lot from being a grossly underpaid indentured servant. An errant boy. A slave to the wishes of anyone positioned higher on the company org. chart, which would be everyone. Mostly, you learn about Ambition and getting out of that damn mailroom.

7. Recruitment Advertising Copywriter -- Finally, and in a fitting way to close the circle on this piece about jobs, I landed my very first writing gig at Bernard Hodes Advertising. Penning Help Wanted ads. This was a lifetime ago. But there's true irony here. This was before computers, so writers and art directors had more than a day to work on an assignment. We also didn't have planners. We didn't need them. Kaiser Permanente needed nurses so we wrote ads about nurses. Similarly, Dodge has a year end sales event or Pizza Hut needs to hawk some $10 deal, you do ads about a year end sales event or some crappy $10 pizza. Why do we need insights or a briefing deck or a communications platform strategy session? Why godamnit, why?


As I write this, I am now entering Day 3 of Mancation 2016.

The cobwebs are a little thick this morning as I inflicted heavy damage to a recently-purchased bottle of Sailor Jerry Spiced Rum, my newest alcoholic vice. It has the easy, smooth drinkability of a lady cocktail. But it's 92 proof, so it has the Holy-Shit-I-Did-That Blackout Potential of a frat boy drink.

For those of you not familiar with the Mancation terminology (interestingly enough, spellcheck does not recognize the word and keeps nagging me to change it) allow me to explain.

Thanks to some stupid late-summer sorority functions, my youngest daughter had to return to the University of Colorado quite early. My wife and other daughter flew to Boulder to assist with the move in process. Leaving me, the dog, and a year's worth of pent up irresponsibility all to ourselves.

What on earth should I do?

Go fly fishing in Wyoming?

A golf outing in Scottsdale?

A last minute camping trip to the Kern River?

A debauched return to Vegas, where I could continue my hot streak on the roulette table and maybe catch a show with an Elvis or Blue Brothers impersonator?

Sadly, none of these options were available. After the early summer advertising doldrums, when the Siegels had to subside on Sneaker Soup and Ketchup Sandwiches, business has picked up.

In a big, big way.

I don't know why it always happens, but when the phone rings once, it often rings twice. Or thrice. That's the nature of being a freelancer.

And so, what could've been 4 days of letting hairs #6, #38, and #129 down, has now become a relentless clicking and clacking and manifesto writing-polluzza that begins at the unheard hour of 5 AM -- even before the neighbor's dog starts howling at the rising sun.

Work, work and more work.

And you wonder why I'm angry all the time?

My old boss, Jim, who became my roommate, who became my friend, who became a professor, first introduced me to Charles Bukowski.

"Read this, you're gonna love this guy."

Naturally, I didn't, because frankly poetry was not in my wheelhouse.

"This is different. It's not daffodils and doilies. This guy writes about drinking, shitting and working. It's funny and it's dark and it's right up your alley."

I was in my early twenties and my alley was about getting money and getting laid.

Eventually, I came around.

And now my house is littered with Bukowski books. Some of which I've actually cracked open. And I did become a fan of his gritty, muscular and surprisingly-insightful work.

For a quick introduction you could stream the Mickey O'Rourke bio-pic, Barfly. But I found his over-the-top performance distracting and way too Hollywood. The better choice is Factotum, starring Matt Dillon as Bukowski's brooding alter ego, Henry Chinaski.

All of which is a longwinded preface to my current annoyance.

It appears some dipshit millennials have exploited the writer's legacy, purposely de-gentrified a former dry cleaning store and built themselves a hipster douchebag dive bar , cleverly (though not really) named Barkowski.

From the red leatherette booths to the low rent pool tables, everything has been faithfully and meticulously recreated to harken the Trilby-hat wearing poser crowd to a different era.

Only it hasn't.

Because in a total affront to the man and the man's authenticity, the "bar" does not even serve whiskey.

They have beer and something called soju -- a Korean rice liquor, that according to Wikipedia is often mixed with yogurt and enjoyed in slushy form.

If Bukowski were to pass through the doors of this Disneyfied abortion of a bar I have no doubt he'd be hurling all over the sawdust covered floor before the bartender could say...

"Can I get you an artisan-blended blueberry soju?"


Last year at this time I was a mess.

Some of you might recall that I had taken my family for a Mexican vacation. Whisked them 4000 miles away to the Yucatan Peninsula, where we had hoped to spend 8 glorious days on the beach at a hotel ironically called The Beach.

Sadly, the gods of Sargasso decided they too would park themselves on the powdery sands of Tulum and brought with them enough smelly, slimy seaweed to blanket half of Canada.

I spent the entire week drowning my sorrows in Mojitos. Which I would've done anyway but the alcohol went a long way to make me forget about the otherwise inescapable stench.

Simultaneously, I was also dealing with one of my neighbors, who was raising the loudest barking dog on the planet. Seriously, jet-engine loud.

All compounded by the fact that my youngest daughter was about to enter the University of Colorado for her freshman year, leaving my wife and I at home to deal with the emotional uncertainties of an Empty Nest.

We're over that hump now.

But I can't help noticing on social media that many of my friends and colleagues are about to cross that same heartbreaking threshold. It's so commonplace that even some advertisers are pivoting on the theme.



In just 90 seconds, Michelin does a remarkably good job at capturing the sentiment. And unlike other long form ads, there is no stupefying contortion of thought at the end to link the premise to the product.

This is organic. And small. And truthful.

Full disclosure: it was produced by my alma mater, TBWA Chiat/Day.

More full disclosure: I'm not polishing their rims because I'm looking for any freelance work, lately I'm been getting out of bed at 5 AM just to stay ahead of my current workload.

To the parents out there who will soon be saying goodbye, I offer my sympathy. It is gut wrenching. Heart crushing. And soul sucking. Not unlike working on the Pizza Hut account.

But with the kids away at college it gets better. The house gets cleaner. Toilets get flushed. And the expensive imported roquefort blue cheese gets properly wrapped up and stored in the crisper so it doesn't become a $19 glob of inedible spoiled milk curd.

It also gets different with the passage of time.

Abby: Dad, I'm going back to Boulder can you take me to the airport?

Me: Get yourself an Uber.


Beautiful.

Sculpted.

Aerodynamically-engineered for your driving pleasure.

The Bentley ain't bad either.

For those of you not in the know, that's Kash Doll. I had the pleasure of making her acquaintance last weekend while visiting Oakland for my niece's wedding. I know what you're thinking, but Oakland is up and coming. And the hipsters have actually done a good job gentrifying the place. So watch out Niagra Falls, Oakland could become the Wedding Capitol of the World.


After a 7 hour drive on Interstate 5, where one can enjoy the aroma of diarrhetic cows enjoying their last graze before making their way to the abattoir, I was looking forward to a good night's sleep.

Kash Doll and her posse Philthy Rich, had other plans.

You see, they had unceremoniously parked a $300,000 white Lamborghini in front of the hotel on Broadway. There, at the ripe of hour of 11PM, they began filming their newest (c)rap video.

Not sure what the song was about, but it involved Ms. Doll and her blinged-out friends making all kinds of hand gestures and a lot of swerving around on the hood of the car.

Not exactly the most groundbreaking approach, as I seem to recall about 7 million other rap videos of rappers mugging for the camera and doing the exact same thing.

Nor could I hear any of the "lyrics" but I did a quick audit of Kash Doll's previous work and it's safe to say the song included lots of rhymes involving:

Motherfuckers

Cocksuckers

Bitches

Ho's

And even more motherfuckers.

The filming, the laughing, the blasting of the music just outside my single pane window continued until 1:30 in the morning.

That is until I threw on my adidas sweat pants and made a beeline for the front desk.

I made it clear to Todd, the night manager that if he didn't stop the "music" I would make sure the Oakland PD would. And that given the opportunity I would love to review his hotel on Yelp. By the way, the footstraps on the stationary bike in the Fitness Center need replacing.

Todd assured me he would tend to the matter and asked if he could comp me the night.

I said that would be fine and that while he was trying to mitigate my rage he should also erase the minibar charges for the 2 Guiness Blond Ales ($16), a bag of Planters Cajun Flavored Nuts ($7) and the jumbo sized Snickers Bar ($9).

I won't be adding any of Kash Doll's music to my iTunes library, but I did want to thank her nonetheless for the warm Oakland hospitality.

And for exposing me to her unique brand of "art."

Yesterday I had mentioned 'craft' in the same sentence that I had mentioned 'advertising.'

To some of you, particularly if you were born after 1985, that may seem incongruous. But to a 44 year old like myself it's just plain sad. Because while personal computers and the Internet have given us unfettered access and the ability to crank out ideas at breakneck speed, they've also robbed us of the thing we used to call craft.

Take the example above.

It's one in a series of ads, produced by a friend and colleague Christopher Gyorgy, and it has stuck with me since the day I first laid eyes on it.

Granted, I'm unusually obsessed with the Holocaust and the lessons it has given to mankind (up until the campaign of Donald Trump, that is.) But my admiration goes far beyond the subject matter.

For one thing, the print ad features long copy. Pound for pound, still the best way to engage and persuade people. But Rich, people don't read long copy ads. You're right, they don't. Because ad agencies don't employ writers who can do long copy ads anymore.

If it doesn't fit on a Post It Note, or a bullet in a Powerpoint deck, or if it has 141 characters, it's as useless as an Apple Watch.

I also love that the ad employs a blind headline. It doesn't spoon feed. If you want to know what the ad is about you have to read it. The breadcrumbs are all there. But the reader/viewer must actively put two and two together. As a result the message is more impactful. (I apologize for the poor resolution, this was the only digital copy I could locate.)

The only thing I love more than blind headline is outstanding art direction. Look at the beautiful texture on this. It has dimension. Each piece has been placed on the page with the type of care and precision of a swiss watchmaker. That is not by accident.

It takes a great eye.

And more importantly it takes TIME.

Know why great advertising like this isn't made today? Because work like this doesn't spring from any 5X5 nonsense (5 ideas by 5 o'clock). Or, "here's the brief, let's see where you're at in 3 hours." Or, "I like it, but the Assistant Assistant Planner thinks it's negative."

I could give you a million more reasons, but then I'd run the risk of coming off as bitter and cynical.

I wouldn't want that to happen.


These days everyone is a Creative Director.

The kid who graduated from Art Center three months ago, he's a Creative Director.

The woman who designed the 78 X 128 banner ad for Pepsi, she's a Creative Director.

The planner who convinced management that the scope of her work extended beyond big data, she's also a Creative Director.

In fact, it has become such a sought after title, stars in Hollywood have poked their heads out of their customized trailers and said, "I want to be a Creative Director."

And now the ranks are swelled by such luminaries as Justin Timberlake, Alicia Keys, Will I Am and of course, Swiss Beatz.

The latest entry to the club, once reserved for people who actually knew the craft, is shirt-averse Mathew McConaughey -- who has just signed on to be the Creative Director on Wild Turkey. For those of you who know, Wild Turkey is a bourbon for people who don't know the first thing about bourbon.

Perhaps it's only fitting that the distiller now has a Creative Director who doesn't know the first thing about advertising. You see, MM isn't satisfied with just some titular role. Oh no, he's more than just a pretty face and rippling triceps.

According to the article in ADWEEK , MM wants to get his hands dirty and be involved with every piece of the process.

As the newly minted CD put it:

"When making a movie you have two hours to tell a story. here I have 30 seconds to re-introduce the world to this authentic American brand that has shaped an entire US industry: bourbon. It will be very interesting and fun."

A couple of things Matt, can I call you Matt?

Your naivete is so refreshing. I don't know if you've heard, but 30 second TV spots are so outdated and traditional. The business is all about "extending the platform and engaging consumer interaction via the disruptive use of emerging technology and all its various paradigm shifting possibilities."

MM: Wait, what?

Also, you used the word authentic. That's not on-brand. Our Content Strategists tell us people associate authentic with old. Heritage. Traditional. Wild Turkey is about youth. And energy. And being aspirational. You know changing the world for the better? I want you to see this.




And finally Matty, can I call you Matty? You know that e-mail blast you wrote to the Southeast Distributors, well the CMO thinks the call to action is a little weak. Needs more urgency. Why don't you give it another shot. You know, now that you're a Creative Director.

Oh and have fun with it.

A douchebag-rich environment

Last week there was some sweet, sweet news coming from the ad agency world.

A Big Wig, a Mucketty Muck, a gasbag of a man who shrouded himself in black, lounged gleefully at $1000 a night hotels and took home more money in a year than 100 ad agency employees who actually work in the business take home in 10, found himself getting pounded by the big, thorny, ugly stick of justice.

The LoveMark™ man, Kevin Roberts, the CEO of Saatchi & Saatchi, was quoted in an interview,

"...the fucking debate over gender equality in this industry is over."

With that you could hear the collective inhalation of a million XX chromosome-bearing media planners, art directors, and account supervisors, collectively stopping in their tracks,

"Oh no you din't."

I live in a home full of women. My dog is an old lady. I have two daughters. And my wife has three sisters. Sometimes, there's so much estrogen in the house I think I'm getting a contact high and growing man boobs.

So I know what it's like to incur wrath of the feminine variety. But in Kevin's case the fallout was unusually fast. And it was furious.

The Chairman of Publicis, Maurice Levy, had no love for the LoveMark™ man and put him on leave within hours. But an obscenely paid suspension would not be enough for the torches and pitchfork crowd, who took to social media and made it clear that Kev had to fill out his last creatively imagined timesheet.

And so, the man who had given so much to advertising and cemented his legacy with such stellar work as...I'm trying to remember what he did...I can't find his name on any campaign...I've now looked through 20 annuals and One Show Books...someone help me out here...

Well, he's gone.

All this, on the recent heels of the Gustavo Martinez scandal.

Surely you haven't forgotten about this Jew-hating CEO of J. Walter Thompson, who was also brought down by his jokes about rape and a pending lawsuit from a woman who could no longer work in a hostile environment.

Clearly, I am taking great delight in the demise of these two colossal douchebags.

Frankly, it's nice to see tone-deaf, ignorant, Peter-Principled money grubbing C-Suiters get their due.

It would have been even nicer had the Karma Train been somewhere in the vicinity of my career when I was a staff guy. Because, and I'm not naming names (see Official RoundSeveneteen Policy #38) I have been in the company of head honchos and agency poobahs who have said worse and done worse.

Much, much worse.

In fact, if I were to do a comparison -- and I have no reason not to -- the can't-keep-their-pants-on-clowns I worked with, and grudgingly worked for, make the minor league antics of Kevin Roberts and Gustavo Martinez seem like a bunch of tea-totaling, Mensa-qualifying, Eagle Scout eunuchs.


Not exactly a pancake moment

Last week it was reported that IHOP, the International House of Pancakes, was moving its advertising account from Dailey & Associates to Campbell Ewald & Associates.

This news set off no alarm bells.
Triggered no industry earthquakes.
And shifted no paradigms in the casual dining world.

Mostly because IHOP is known to be an agency hopper, that is, switching their agency of record more often than the "chefs" at IHOP switch out their fryers full of high caloric peanut oil.

Moreover, the account bills about $389, 000 in total media, creating just enough revenue to give the agency receptionist a $5 an hour raise.

Years ago, I'm assuming the NDA on this has expired, I was on the unfortunate end of one of these bi-annual pitches. If memory serves, and often times it doesn't, we were asked to solve an interesting conundrum. With little regard for their name or their brand equity, the International House of Pancakes wanted to capture more of the dinner market.

That's understandable, since dinner tickets are generally higher than breakfast or lunch tickets. But who in their right mind (or the CMO) would ever say...

"You know what we should do for dinner? Go to IHOP."

Pancakes for dinner? But the genii at IHOP had the answer for that. They wanted to introduce Salisbury Steak, Swedish Meatballs, and Fried Chicken. Creating for themselves a monumental marketing task that could not be addressed with $38 million in media, much less one hundredth of the spend.

None of that seemed to matter to the new business folk.

Or the Planners.

"Make IHOP the number one destination for innovative, family friendly casual dining with an  emphasis on quality, value and industry leadership...zzzzzzzzzz."

My partner and I had a very different idea. Having just read the book Good to Great, we wanted to pivot on pancakes (basically synonymous with IHOP), a food everybody loves and elevate pancakes into something more than just flour and water.

We were going to make pancakes the edible equivalent of champagne.

Pancakes, in our mind, could be celebration food:


"RAISE"
:15

Open on wife coming into house. She runs in the door, grabs her husband, gives him a bear hug and a big kiss. She tells him she got the promotion and a raise. He smiles, looks her in the eyes and says...

HUSBAND: You know what this calls for? Pancakes.

IHOP Logo
Break out the syrup.


or,


"BABY"
:15

Grandparents walk into hospital room. They see their son, his wife and their brand new baby girl. They kneel over the girl, telling the new mom, she's beautiful. It's a joyous moment. The grandfather looks up...

GRANDFATHER: I have a great idea. Pancakes.

IHOP Logo
Break out the syrup.


Not surprisingly, the President of the agency didn't get it.

Months later, we got fired.


From the heavens above

When it comes to security cameras around my house, I'm proud to say I was one of the early adopters.

When you're surrounded by neighbors who enjoy fireworks, dumping rock salt on the grass, leaving their doggie doo, or just loudly going about their lives with no environmental awareness or consideration for others, it helps to have it all documented on cameras that can be seen.

And some that are not seen.

You may recall last summer, when a mysterious white van appeared form nowhere and left this little magic for my viewing enjoyment.



I was thoroughly disappointed when the marketing mavens at Nest refused to use the clip in their online promotions.

Last week, I received a notification from the camera pointing towards my backyard. It happened around 5 o'clock in the morning and I had no idea what to expect.

Was one of my neighbors lighting magnesium?

Were they roasting a pig?

Or setting up a still to brew moonshine?

When you live amidst white trash you just never know. But what triggered the notification wasn't because of any terrestrial activity. It came from above. (look for it at about :05)

And now ironically enough, it lives forever, stored digitally in my cloud.


Last Friday night was turning into another typical Friday night.

"What do you want for dinner?" turned into "I don't know, what do you want for dinner?" turned into "How about Mexican?" and devolved into, "I don't feel like Mexican, what do you want for dinner?"

I short circuited this rerun between myself, my wife and my daughter with, "Let's get on the train and head to Santa Monica."

Not that we couldn't have driven there. By 7:30 the rush hour traffic had cleared. But we like to support the public transportation, if for no other reason it gives us a sense of schadenfreud with regards to the privileged classes in Cheviot Hills who fought tooth and nail to stop the Light Rail construction.

The night was uneventful. We didn't want to wait an hour and a half for a table at Oysterette, so we snagged an open booth at The Independence, which I would give one star if I were to take the time to visit Yelp.

The food sucked. And the portions were tiny.

Then we visited Dreams and Creams and dropped more than twenty dollars for three small cups of ice cream. It was damn fine ice cream. But twenty bucks?

On the train coming back to Culver City, my wife and daughter grabbed two seats. I sat directly in front of them. And, seconds before the train departed, a drunken, homeless man, with all his earthly belongings, sat in front of me. He cracked open a plastic bottle of Sprite (yeah, right) and started drinking.

Then, and I knew this was going to happen, he turned his attention in my direction. I don't which was worse, his rummy breath or his 6 month old B.O., which could easily knock a buzzard off a shitwagon.

I made the mistake of cracking a small joke with Mr. SmellyPants and it was On.

You can learn a lot from a stranger in 35 minutes. Turns out he was a Woody Allen fan, a Jeopardy aficionado and a former native of Teaneck, NJ, just a stone's throw from my hometown of Suffern, NY.

All of this delighted my wife, who could not stop laughing at my predicament. While my noxious train mate regaled me with his in depth review of Hannah and Her Sisters, my wife was busy texting...





At one point in the conversation that ricocheted from topic to topic, he actually blurted out a line that I have said many times while sitting in my own living room. When contestants on the show get the wrong answer...

"That Alex Trebeck can be a real douchebag."

I know it's not a pretty picture, but the inordinately expensive ice cream my wife and daughter were enjoying, came shooting out their nose.

The NIMBY people in Cheviot Hills might not agree, but in my mind the entire hilarious exchange was worth the 2.5 billion dollars spent on the Expo Line.

That, and then some.


That's not me in the open salty waters that separate Palos Verdes from Catalina Island, that's 20 year old Abby Bergman, a friend and former classmate of my daughters.

Last week, in the pitch dark of a midnight hour, Abby dipped her toe in the warm water off Catalina Island and, pointing more than 20 miles across a dark abyss to a luxury resort on the mainland, told her two moms, Kim and Natalie,

"I'll see you over there, at the Terranea Hotel."

All I can say is: Holy Shit!

There are few attributes in a human being that I admire more than persistence and determination.

It's what drove me to complete triathlons and three LA Marathons. Nor am I a stranger to long distance swimming. Not long ago, I staged some long distance pool swims, and with RoundSeventeen reader assistance, raised more than $5000 for Wounded Warriors.

But an open water, midnight haul across a heavily trafficked shipping lane is a beast of an entire different nature.

It is monumental by every account of the word.

If you're running a marathon for instance and feel yourself running out of gas, you stop, take a breather, and maybe dash into a nearby Dunkin Donuts for a quick pick me up. There are no Dunkin Donuts at sea. You might spot an errant abalone, but try grabbing that slippery snack when your hands are pruned up from 6 hours of nonstop swimming.

And swimming is different than running.

Years ago, I was doing laps in Playa Vista and the training coach from the LA Clippers had brought some of the guys in to explore some new techniques to increase their stamina. Keep in mind, these were thoroughbred athletes who are paid millions of dollars to run up and down a court every other night of the season.

They were winded after 25 meters. Huffing, puffing and swearing at the water after 30 seconds in the water.

Abby was in the water for more than 10 hours! I know during that time she must have thought...

"Why am I doing this?"

"I think I've had enough"

or even,

"This was a bad idea."

But she silenced those demons and pushed on to the goal line, knowing that for this (or any other endeavor in life), there is no point starting something unless you intend to finish.

I rarely see that kind of fortitude in a full grown adult.

I am astounded when it is so gracefully demonstrated by someone who just turned 20.


The great thing about the universe is how is it strives for balance.

Unseen, unknown forces are hard at work to provide a ying for every yang. A dog for every cat. A new calorie-burning cardio machine for every slice of German Triple Chocolate Forest Cake.

This great movement is also evident in the world of business.

Take Theranos for example. At one time this Silicon Valley wundercompany was valued at more than $9 billion. Today, the maker of medical diagnostic toys that literally wanted your blood, is worth less than the bandaids needed to cover up the pricks.

The ying to this particular yang is the Dollar Shave Club. A start up that had zero valuation in its infancy was just sold to Unilever for $1 billion.

And that's not faux Wall Street wall paper money, that's one billion dollars in greenbacks -- the kind of real cash you can use to buy groceries, purchase dry cleaning services or even hand over to your personal physician for verifiable medical testing.

Clearly I am delighted with the success of Dollar Shave Club.

Why? Because it can be argued the company owes its unprecedented success to marketing.

Look, monthly purchasing clubs have been with us for a while. You can have fruits and cheese delivered to your doorstep. You can have tailored shirts delivered to your doorstep. You can even join a purchasing outfit that will send you a new golf club every month.

Razor blades are just the latest commodity to join the list.

What stood out was the way those shaving utensils were brought to market -- with quirky, breakthrough, hilarious videos. Let me refresh your memory.



Of course my joy for Dollar Shave Club is tinged with a little bitterness. It's like digging into a delicious chopped salad only to find the chef has misguidedly added in some turnips. And beets.

You see I've spent the entirety of my career writing and pitching ideas of a similar nature. Deadpan delivery. Intelligent copy. A nod to the absurd. And for the entirety of my career I have returned from those pitch meetings with weird bromides like:

"We like humor but we're not looking for laughs."

How silly of me.

It may not have worked out in my case, but congratulations DSC. You have proven the maxim -- Funny is Money.

Intensity!

As I've mentioned on this blog many times in the past, when senior creatives, fellow copywriters and art directors who've spent years in the trenches, suddenly find themselves booted from those trenches, due to rightsizing or just the willy-nilly hiring of inexperienced (cheaper) kids, mine is the first phone to ring.

They want advice.
They want reassurance.
They want to know there's life after the agency world.

All very strange, because anyone who knows me knows I'm not exactly the nurturing kind, oozing with positivity and optimism.

 I tell them all the same thing.

"Take a deep breath. Relax. And follow this fail proof formula for getting freelance gigs. Grow your ear hair out. Ask for twice as much as you think they might pay. And don't return any job inquiries for at least three days. It makes Creative Resource Managers want you that much more."

Let's keep in mind these people are now going after the same jobs that put food on my table and keep two college bursars at bay.

Because I've been fortunate enough to stay very busy during my past dozen years as a freelancer, every one of these panicked phone call ends with the same plea:

"If you have any overflow, send it my way."

And for twelve years, ever since I was 32 years old, I have.

I've placed more people in gigs than many of LA's top headhunters.

Two weeks ago, for instance, I found myself up to my own ear hairs in work assignments. And, as always the case, an agency called to inquire about my availability. Had they been open to me working remotely, I would have taken on the project, climbed out of bed at 5 in the morning, clicked and clacked on the keyboard until the clock struck midnight and gleefully started sending out the invoices.

But they wanted me onsite.

So I flipped through my Rolodex (you kids, look that up on your Lycos) and gave the recruiter the names of other freelance writers.

I know many, many freelance writers. But I know of only one who, 6 months earlier, repaid the favor of a referral with a rare bottle of Opus One Overture, which Vivino describes as "approachable in its youth with a generous fruit and a soft, supple mid-palate."

I have no idea what the fuck that means. Nor does it matter. Suffice to say, that writer's name was at the top of the list. And today, he is starting his second week on the job.

That gives me great joy.

What gives me even greater joy is that in addition to the very nice bottle of wine he sent, today I received another FedEx. A carefully bubble-wrapped bottle of premium Hibiki Suntory Whiskey  (seen above).

Keep that, and my empty liquor cabinet, in mind next time you guys start hitting me up for overflow.


Do you tumble?

I do.

Three and a half years ago I started tumbling about Kim Jung Un ,  the dear Leader of the DPRK, the Democratic (?) People's Republic of North Korea.

Like most good projects, I had no idea it would grow and evolve and keep gaining momentum, as it has. Had I been a little more savvy, I would have chosen a better digital platform for the near daily captioning of his staged photo ops.

I would have picked Instagram, which I'm told by my daughters is much hipper and more conducive to viral sharing.

But I didn't and now I'm stuck on Tumblr, the red-headed, goth-filled, manga porn-laden, Nazi-obsessed, twisted stepchild of the Internet.

And it's much too late to migrate the collection, literally hundreds of captioned Kim Jung Un photos, to a new app.

Which is fine because it's not like the Tumblr dashboard is without its rewards.

Today, for instance, I found the following. And because I'm recovering from a stifling little head cold, I'll concede that I can't write anything funnier.

Enjoy...


Many of you are familiar with my Apple debacle several years ago. Much to my dismay, I'm told my quick unexpected departure from the Cupertino office is a tale told by many a freelancer.

To recap, I was hired for a long 4 month gig to help with the launch of the iPhone 5. Because of incredibly tight security and the omnipresent threat of corporate sabotage, I was required to spend my time under their employ, under their roof.

The plan was for me to drive north, shack up at the Klimpton Inn down the street, work Monday thru Friday afternoon and then fly back and forth on weekends to spend time with my family and my two daughters who were fast approaching college age.

Long story mercifully shorter, the working conditions were not ideal. For me. A huge open room. Long community tables. Surveillance cameras at every turn.

"Mr. Siegel, you used an excessive amount of toilet paper in the bathroom."

Not to mention, a slow, laborious process that emphasized teamwork. Ugh.
Collaboration, yuck.
And a fastidious fascist-like attention to detail, Agggghhhh!

I was on-site for three and half days, earning an exorbitant day rate I might add, and still hadn't received a brief. I decided then and there that 4 months of this nerdy, khaki pants wearing hell was just too much. So I bailed.

But before I did, and this is part of the tale that never gets told, I shot off an email to my supervisor and enclosed 4-5 pages of headlines and body copy I had written without a brief. The new iPhone was in color, how much did I need a brief?

I'm surprised I made it back to the 101 Freeway without getting waterboarded.

As my supervisor explained, all emails must be sent on Apple's proprietary, highly encrypted Java-coded, hyper HTML-enhanced Super Servers in order to foil any agents of espionage. The discussion got very heated and the veins on his neck throbbed uncontrollably. And he was wearing a turtle neck.

I reassured him they were only stupid headlines:

Make your friends green with envy.

The sky blue is the limit.

Picking your next phone is no longer black and white.

Remember, these were written without the aid of a brief.

Apart from me being blacklisted at Apple, there was no harm done. My boss didn't get fired. Samsung didn't steal their thunder. And any breach of their double walled, super secret security system went unnoticed.

Who among us hasn't made a misstep with email?

I don't know whether Hillary's reclassified emails were as just as innocuous but with the campaign now entering the homestretch I am sure we're going to get an earful about it.

After all, the empty-headed game show host/real estate huckster/orange vulgarian has got little else to run on.

In either case, the next 4 months are going to be Huuuuuuge.


If you're in the business of making with the funny, and thankfully I am, this week's Republican National Convention and indeed the entire campaign of Donald Trump, is frankly the gift that keeps on giving.

It doles out laughs faster than a Federally funded Saul Alinsky Welfare Program could dish out thousand dollar bills.

The plagiarized speech, referenced above, is but a tiny fraction of the miscues -- though I'm not sure many Republicans see it that way -- beaming to us live from the shores of appropriately named Lake Erie.

Two days ago, for instance, the California delegation caught a very contagious case of norovirus. So if the opening chaos on the convention floor, the lack of minorities in attendance and the anemic support of the Republican establishment didn't have them vomiting and shitting all over themselves, surely the three day old shrimp salad did.

And then there were the speakers.

At one time, I was a big admirer of Rudy Guliani. His handling and leadership of the post-9/11 crisis was nothing short of inspiring. Cool, calm and collected. The Rudy we saw the other night was anything but. As one online friend put it, it was as if he were doing a poor imitation of Benito Mussolini.

The GOP could be excused if Rudy was an anomaly.
That was hardly the case.

Ben Carson, the absent-minded doctor who, by his own admission and in some misguided attempt to get some street cred, stabbed a fellow schoolmate in his younger and wilder days. Not stabbed him in the back metaphorically, as politicians and advertising agency executives have been known to do.

But in the gut with a kitchen knife.
Thankfully, the boy was saved by a miraculous belt buckle.

Inexplicably, Dr. Carson made Lucifer, The Prince of Darkness, the keystone of his nationally broadcast speech.

We are staring at global climate change, intricate challenges in geo-politics, the rise of extremism, diminishing natural resources, overpopulation, growing income disparity, and a host of other problems that demand rigorous attention and out of the box thinking, but we are talking about Lucifer?

Have we really sunken to this infantile level of intellectual discourse?
Apparently we have.

You see the brain surgeon was preceded onstage by the un-brain surgeon, Scott Baio.

According to Baio, aka Charles in Charge, "Trump is a guy who gets things done."

Moreover, "it's not about getting free stuff" --though I'm sure some purchasing agents at the Pentagon, fond of gold plated toilets, disagree.

And once we put God/Jesus/Allah/SkyDaddy back in the classroom, "we're going to make America America again."

That's some mind-bending stuff, Chachi.

No wonder Joanie loved you.



Next week, the Democrats are up. In terms of sheer laughter, they're gonna have hard time topping this.


You've seen this guy.

He's in an odd TV commercial . One that has had America scratching its collective head for a month or so.

Chances are you can already hear the harpy voices of the song playing in the background. And almost feel his warm soothing touch as he pats you on the shoulder.

You might even remember the car he's in is a Volvo.

And for breaking thru the enormously cluttered world of TV advertising, the crew at the ad agency (frankly I'm swamped with work and I'm not even bothering to look it up) deserves credit.

But for the life of me I don't know what this commercial wants me to feel.

Here's what I do know.

I would have paid good money, maybe 100, maybe 200 bucks, to have been a fly on the wall when the team presented this work to the National Board of Volvo Dealers.

I'd throw in another 100 if somebody would have granted me permission to film the reaction. Trust me when I say there is nothing more entertaining than watching a bunch of advertising agency bullshitters trying to put one over on a bunch of sheet metal bullshitters.

"What the fuck is that? Are they going to a funeral? And who the fuck are these people? Why aren't we talking about the 27 airbags? The blind spot warning system? The intelligent all wheel drive? Play it again. Did I miss something? And what's with that music? Is that Bjork? I thought she was dead. Can someone tell me what the fuck is going on here?"

I've never found myself agreeing with a bunch of car dealers, who by and large have the aesthetic taste of a...er, what's the right metaphor...a car dealer.

But on this I'd have to concur.

It makes me for yearn for a simpler and, dare I say, smarter time. When we used the precious 30 seconds we were given on the national airwaves to make a point, to offer up something in the arena of persuasion, when we tried to actually sell our client's products. And not make short jack-off cinema pieces that would get booed off the stage at the Des Moines Independent Film Festival.

Little war story.

When I was at Chiat, I played a lot of pool with Jerry Gentile and Rob Feakins. We had a great pool table and we were not subjected to the ridiculous 24 hour check ins that hang above the heads of creatives like the sword of Damocles.

One time, my boss took it upon herself to chide me about my ever improving pool game.

"Shouldn't you be working on that new Nissan Altima spot?" she inquired.

Taking that as my inspiration and to prove a point about how creativity needs to flow freely, we quickly wrote a spot involving pool balls. We painted them with the same process and self-healing paint as the Nissan Altima. Then, using specially rigged motion control cameras that glided along the felt table we filmed the balls smashing into each other. The spot ended with a corny heavy-handed reference to Scratch. Get it?

Not a great spot (I can't find it anywhere on YouTube) but at least it made a point. And gave car buyers one more reason to consider an Altima.

I miss those days.

But once you turn 44 years old, there are a lot of things you start to miss.

Cue the sappy Bjork Music.

Recognize this guy?

I didn't.

But that's understandable, he's a hip hop artist. I could name two, maybe three, hip hop "artists" if I got lucky. Mostly from telling my teenage daughters to "turn that (insert hip hop artist name here) shit down."

But you?

You're younger, hipper, more wired to pop culture than I'll ever be. And so the name Swiss Beatz should've come rolling off your tongue immediately. Or is it Swizz Beats?

Well, the genii at Bacardi are so enamored with this Mr. Beatz, they have named him to be their new "Global Chief Creative for Culture for Bacardi with Oversight for the Entire Bacardi Portfolio of Brands."

Wow, that's gonna be hard to fit on a business card.

The article did not disclose the financial details of the signing, but I have to suspect it's not as lucrative as the deal Alicia Keys got from Blackberry.

Nor is it anywhere near the multimillion dollar struck between Intel, the world's largest manufacturer of microprocessing chips and Will I Am, famous hawker of Pepsi brown fizzy water.

I'm also not sure what these brands think they're buying. I can't imagine some hipster dude with a footlong lumberjack beard or a woman in a skin-tight tube dress sauntering up to a bar and saying,

"Can I get a Mojito? Oh no, not that Captain Morgan swill. Gimme the rum that my man Swiss Beatz drinks. He's the Global Chief Creative for Culture for Bacardi with Oversight for the Entire Bacardi Portfolio of Brands. Yeah, he knows his shit."

Farfetched as that might sound, I have an even harder time conjuring up Will I Am's contribution at Intel.

Look, I am the embodiment of unhip, uncool and unbearably ignorant of today's music scene. But think about the guys in the IT department --the pocket-protector wearing purchasing agents responsible for enterprise data management and corporate hardware upgrades. The feeds and speed nerds. You think they're following Black Eyed Peas? To them it's a vegetable, in same inedible category as cauliflower and broccoli.

Then again, maybe I'm wrong on all this.

Maybe I should get a celebrity brand spokesperson for Rich Siegel Worldwide?

I wonder what Spoonie Gee is up to.

Kudos to Coffee

Maybe it's the optimist in me (mind you, he's a tiny fellow) but it appears the advertising pendulum has begun swinging in the opposite direction.

Towards sanity.
Towards common sense.
Towards persuasion.
And away from bullshit.

Just last week, John Wren, head of mighty Omnicom, hinted that clients are steering more of their budgets back into traditional media.

Prior to that, Martin Sorrell suggested scaling back or even skipping the now bloated and inordinately expensive Cannes festival.

And we are witnessing the final and very public takedown of one William Grizack, the Planning/Strategist/Charlatan/Grifter/Flim Flam Man (BTW, all those words are somewhat interchangeable) who embezzled money from unwitting ad agencies (are thee any other kind?) and sent dozens of our colleagues to the unemployment lines.

The fall of Señor Grizack is directly proportionate to the rise of Mr. Patrick Coffee, the hard charging editor/journalist who uncovered this seedy little story at AgencySpy.

Here too, things are changing.

AgencySpy, at one time banned from certain organizations with a weak stomach and an even weaker understanding of how the Internet is available through various mobile devices, was fondly regarded as an industry gossip rag.

It was here we could anonymously vent, rage against the Death Star holding companies and throw carefully-crafted shade on shitty Nike knock-off spots or newly-appointed douchey creative directors sporting ear gauges, tatted sleeves or silk ascots.

But now, with the glorious takedown of the Grizmeister and his paradigm shape shifting formulas and his revolutionary brand ebonics, AgencySpy is becoming something else -- credible.

And we ought to give a hearty hat tip to Patrick Coffee for doing so.

Of course now that the Griz has exchanged his $150 plaid shirts for a set of prison-issued orange overalls, the question is, where will Mr. Coffee proceed to turn his prying eye?

I have a host of suggestions: obscene pay inequality, sweatshop working conditions, dysfunctional mismanagement, drug and alcohol abuse, raging incompetence and the disappearance of any work/life balance.

Plus, now that I'm 44, it's hard to believe but I'm beginning to see the first signs of ageism.
Shocking!

The sad truth is I never rose that high on the corporate ladder. With today's bloated title inflation, my one-time status as a Group Creative Director is truly the equivalent of being the Senior Mailroom Clerk. So I never really knew about all the agency dirt. But I do know the people who do know the people who know where all the bodies are buried.

I'd be tempted to give up those names if Patrick Coffee would simply revert back to the old, easier to read layout of AgencySpy.

Is that too much to ask?

Make it stop


It might be the last thing you want to hear right now, particularly since I've only recently stopped obnoxiously promoting my last book , but the manuscript for my next book is almost complete.

Please do not try to bombard me with pre-sales orders.

There's still a lot of proofreading, tweaking and discarding of weak material to be done.

And let me tell you the hardest about writing a book is re-reading and rewriting the book you've already written.

Especially so in this case.

The book is a collection of the best rants curated from the pages of RoundSeventeen. And because there is so much in the way of bitching and moaning and ranting and raving and whining and pining, it's enough to make you look for a tall building with a shoddily made glass side from the 70th floor to the 69th floor.

Seriously, I can't imagine why the 13 regular readers of this blog bother to return everyday. There's nothing even remotely entertaining here. Advertising blah blah blah. Shitty planners gabba gabba gabba. Overpaid drunk CEOs wokka wokka wokka.

Enough.

I don't know about you, but I'm sick of me.

I hope you'll enjoy my new book.

Using the hustle muscle

This post is about discovering new muscles.

It's not related to my every other day pumping of the iron in my garage. Or how I am easily bench-pressing my weight (impressive for a fat 44 year old). Or even how the curling is producing the desired veiny bulge in my biceps.

My wife still won't let me walk around the house with sleeveless tank tops.

No, this is about musculature of a different sort.
The professional kind.

You see lately things have gotten a little wonky in the ad agency world. Holding companies in NY are demanding more and more profits. Which means agencies, particularly the LA satellite agencies, have to run leaner and meaner.

Leaner, meaning anyone with 5 years experience in the biz, is too expensive.

"Can't we get an intern to write the Super Bowl spot?"

And meaner, meaning: the floggings will continue until morale improves.

Couple that with the growing glut of freelancers (skilled art directors and writers Getting Quit, see above) and you'll know why I haven't stepped foot in an ad agency in more than 3 months. Of course I still field remote work, but I do occasionally find myself missing the smell of day old pizza as well as the stench of crushed dreams and broken careers.

Anyway, to keep the coffers filled here at Rich Siegel Worldwide, I've been working directly with clients.

This is where those new muscles come in. Because as you might expect, playing Account Guy, Planner Strategist and Chief Financial Officer are not exactly in my comfort zone. They're not even remotely in my zip code.

Nevertheless, Adopt.
Adapt.
And Survive.

Lately I've found myself writing proposals, negotiating project scope, and running to the local printers to fire off some spiral bound decks. By the way, the lazy asses at my local Kinkos can fuck off with their 24 hour turnaround. The nice people at OfficeMax across the street knocked it out in 3 hours. People in a service industry should learn the fundamentals about service.

It's almost like I'm starting a little ad agency of my own. I wonder which holding company I should sell myself to? I know Omnicom has those fat dividends. And that nice yacht in Cannes.

Next week I should hear back from a small adult beverage distributor about some project work on a growing brand of alcohol. This would be perfect.

I can supplement my new muscle growth with an invigorating workout for my liver.


Submitted for your amusement, Ken Ham's Legendary Ark Encounter, a $107 million tourist attraction being built in the heart of Kentucky (God's second favorite place) and just about ready to open its hatch to homo-hating, gun-toting Bible literalists throughout the land.

Spoiler Alert: Iffin' you are an Abrahamic believer and take offense easily, I suggest you stop reading cause shit's about to get real. Unless the Lord strikes me down as I take to the keyboard and lay waste to another one of his soggy pulp fiction, human-spiting stories. Which would actually be a cool way to go now that I think about it.

First off, kudos to Ken Ham, the Australian Genesis-guided evangelical who spearheaded this important work.

Mr. Ham, an appropriate name if there ever was one, is a strict follower of the first book of the Old Testament, a collection of funny stories written by a bunch of old Jews before they got around to Seinfeld, Blazing Saddles and Everyone Loves Raymond.

Ham felt that by rebuilding Noah's very big boat, he could inspire people and bring them back to God's law, faulty in logic as that may be.

If, for instance, the world as Ken knows it was created in 6 days how did God measure a day, which is the time it takes for Earth to complete one rotation? But according to Ken's book the sun is not created until Day Four, so how can you define a day previous to its creation?

It boggles the mind.

But it is not nearly as confounding as the fact that the good people of Kentucky (again, God's second favorite place on Earth) could shell out, in the form of tax credits, millions of dollars so that Mr. Ham could erect his biblical petting zoo.

Think of how that money could have otherwise been spent.

Just a thought, a Christian thought, they could have fed some hungry people. They could have housed some homeless folks. Or, and I'm just spitballing here, they could have used the money to buy new textbooks for the schools -- updated textbooks that include descriptions of a round, not flat, Earth, Charles Darwin and this new science-y thing called carbon-dating.

And then of course, there's the Ark itself.

Supposedly, it housed a pair of more than 5,000 species of animals. Including, according to Mr. Ham, dinosaurs which roamed the planet the same time Noah was putting the finishing touches on the Ark bathrooms. Which brings up the care and feeding of all those creatures.

According to Ken Ham's "scholars", they had enough food onboard to feed all the animals for a full year, until all the rain waters had receded. I'm just doing the math in my head and have got to believe it would take a better part of a 24 hour day to feed all those damn critters. And then what about cleaning up after them?

I've seen those news reports of sewage problems on a Carnival Cruise Line and it's not pretty.

Maybe Noah and Mrs. Noah were built of stronger stuff than me, but if God told me to live on a boat for a year with 10,000 smelly, eating and constantly-pooping animals, I'd ask to see what was behind Door #2.

BTW, I know you're dying for a closer look at this monstrosity, so here's a promotional video of this faithfully recreated biblical miracle. (I had no idea they had Tyvek protective sheathing back then. Just another one of the Lord's miracles)


As a Bronx-born child who was raised in the suburbs of New York City, I always had a picture of what life was like in the wild, wild west.

To be honest, I had several pictures, including gun-slinging cowboys, tee pees, baked beans and of course, old cow skeletons.

I know this is a cliche.

A proven cliche at that, particularly if you do a Google search for cow skulls (see above).

The truth is the vast, western landscape is not littered with the remains of old bovine carcasses. In fact, in the 30 plus years...er, 20 plus years I've been living in California, I have never come across one.

Though when I was a bartender I did meet an actual cowboy. He herded steer in Wyoming, shoed horses and could dance a mean Texas Two Step. He also had an affinity for pink daiquiris. And by the end of the night we, the bartending staff, would often have to pour Tuffie McTuffBoy into the tiny camper that was bolted onto his truck which was permanently parked behind the restaurant.

Another myth destroyed.

But last week, while my wife and I were camping,in the High Sierras, hiking and cramming all manner of fire-cooked meat into our pieholes, there was redemption.

While off on another Paul Sinfield-inspired roadside attraction hunt, we came across this...




I was going to hop the barbed wire fence, trespass on the property and get up close for a better shot but my wife objected.

She correctly pointed out that most people possess a zoom-in feature on their computer. She also pointed out that the land owner -- most likely a drug addled, white supremacist -- probably possessed a high powered rifle.

Additionally, though the front porch of his double wide trailer was nearly a quarter mile in the distance, he could easily pick off a slow moving 44 year old Jew with two, maybe three, well-placed shots.

Now, you may be thinking, "come on, Rich, that's awfully narrowminded of you to paint with such a broad brush. Just like your mistaken cliched images of the West, not everyone who lives in the sun-baked Owens Valley is a lowbrow, barefoot, meth-smoking, hate-filled flesh sack named Cletus."

How silly of me.

Where would I come up with that idea?

Rode the new rail line to Santa Monica recently.

Loved it.

The nearest station (PALMS) is a mile and a half from my house but the walk always does me good and clears the head. On the way south on Clarington, I spotted this moving truck.

Naturally, I whipped out my camera and started photographing the oddity.

The three Hispanic guys -- that's right they weren't some nice Jewish boys as the name would indicate -- watched as I scoped out the vehicle.

One of them even offered to translate.

"Funny name, isn't it? Want to know what it means?"

I gave him the same answer I give to Jehovah Witnesses when they come selling God at my doorstep.

"I got it covered."


It's that time again.

For the 13th year in a row, we will be packing the Acura MDX until it can be packed no more. We will fill every nook and cranny and hidden emergency trunk space with all manner of camping gear.

Fire starter kits that will never be started.

Emergency space blankets that will never be taken from their emergency space blanket packets.

And dried beef stroganoff that will remain in powder form unless some grizzly bear rips through the campground, eats all our lime flavored Tostitos chips and handcrafted hard salami, and leaves us nothing in his wake.

Unlike years past, we will not be bringing the kids in tow. They have reached that age when, first of all they don't like being referred to as kids. And second of all, they are just way too cool to "camp."

And while this breaks my heart it also gives us license to stock up on California state-approved herbal medicine and their carefully prescribed medicinal use.

It also allows us permission to revisit nearby attractions that may not have been so attractive when we visited them a long time ago.

The BristleCone Forest for instance, featuring trees that are older than modern civilization, dating back 4000 years ago, was a brutal sun-baked hike for some of our whiny 7 and 8 year olds. But now, without the crying and complaining, it may warrant another trip.

Likewise, minus the youngins', we might also summit the mighty Kearsage Pass, an 11 mile hike with 2500 foot gain in altitude.

There can be no doubt that without the kids running around, the camping trip will take on a different dynamic.

If I know anything about human behavior I think it's safe to say that the kids, ours and our friend's, will be visiting the place long after this 44 year old has written his final tagline. They'll be reliving memories. Memories, we all had a hand in making.

Hopefully, they'll be drinking rum and cokes, scouring the campground and taking their children on a laugh-filled, imaginary snipe hunt.

"Wugga-wugga-wugga, here snipe!"

It's hot, hot, hot.

Last week, summer arrived.

After weeks of a cooler-than-normal June Gloom, the sun broke through and the mercury soared. Triple digits, inland. High nineties, here by the beach.

Granted it was a dry heat, not like the unbearable humid summer days of my NY youth when by 9 o'clock in the morning my sweaty clothes had the aroma of 9 o'clock in the evening.

Nevertheless it was hot and it gave me ample reason to reset the Nest Thermostat and fire up the jet engine air conditioning units I purchased way back in October.

The 2 &1/2 ton Trane XB 14 and the 3 ton Trane XB 16 purred to perfection. And within seconds, virginal cool air was blowing through the all the ducts in the house, well almost all the ducts. But that's a $1000 repair for another blog.

We, meaning all the Siegels, were in heaven. And that includes my two princess daughters, home from college, whose first spoken words many years ago were not "Dada" or "Mama" but "We have to get a/c for the house."

Of course, the happiness was short-lived. As it always is in my life. My former art director, John Shirley, is fond of saying, "You're only happy when you're unhappy."

That couldn't be a truer statement. Because within hours of putting the air conditioning on I felt a conditioned reflex to turn it off.

Maybe it's the Scottish in me.
Or the Jewish in me.
Or maybe as I posited on Father's Day I have fully evolved into my father.

In another lifetime, he drove an old Pontiac Bonneville. It was the first car we ever had that came equipped with air conditioning. It was an after-market air conditioning unit installed below the push-button radio but that hardly mattered.

It blew cold air.

Or so we were led to believe. Because the old man refused to turn it on. Ever. It put a strain on the engine and used up too much fuel.

"Roll down your windows."

"Drink some water."

"Why don't you kids shut up?"

And there it was. The explanation for my a/c hesitance.

From a very, very young age, I had it drummed into my head that running the air conditioning is an expensive proposition.

And this is when gasoline was only 28 cents a gallon.


As you may or may not have heard, last week a small group of people, drunk with power, hellbent on maintaining their incestuous culture and perpetuating exclusionary policies, took to voting, made their fateful selections and in turn rocked the world economies, sending hundreds of advertising professionals to their nearest linkedin.com update profile page.

Oh wait, you thought I was talking about the Brexit.

When in fact I was referring to the Cannes Advertising Festival.

Sorry, this was your classic misdirect.
And the misdirect was completely intentional.

Because as our beloved ad industry flounders, with shrinking margins, the disappearance of AOR accounts, the fragmentation of media as well as its blatantly false metrics, the scandalous corporate leadership, institutional C-Suite racism, sexism and ageism, the tone-deaf powers that be, would rather distract us with their debauchery and have us believe there's ample cause for excessive celebration.

Sorry to be the parade rainer, but I'm simply not buying it.

Tell it to the thousands of ad veterans who Got Quit this year.


"Hey really sorry that we have to let you go after 13 years of dedicated service, including countless weekends, canceled vacation plans.and missed wedding anniversaries. And we know your daughter is going in for that expensive orthodontia so this is a particularly bad time, but hey, check out this cool house we rented in Le Cannet. It has a pool!"

Or...



"Remember when you won a Lion for us in 2008? That was great and the agency really appreciates all you've done, but we can't afford you. Or your office anymore. Or your vision care. We hired three interns to do your job and still had enough left over for these obscenely-expensive magnums of Armand de Brignac."


You could argue that those who "left to pursue other opportunities" are the lucky ones. What about the unfortunate many who didn't make the trip? The ones still on the agency payroll.


"We'd love to give you a raise this year. And last year. And the year before, but we simply can't. The holding company says we have to tighten the belt. But look who played at our private party...Sting. We got Sting!"


Well, it's back to business as ususal this week. And by usual I mean get in to the office at 9:30 AM and don't leave until 11PM. Oh and if you don't come in on Saturday, don't bother to come in on Sunday.

You know the drill so place your nose squarely on the grindstone. Because next year, the same people pouring you a tall glass of Kool Aid have their eye on a fancy hotel upgrade.


"Check it out, I'm on the top floor of the Carlton. The room was $3000 a night. I'm looking right out onto the Gulf de le Napoule. Damn, Droga got a yacht. We gotta get a yacht."


If you reside in Adland you are well aware of the creative and media review initiated by AT&T, the nation's largest...er, I don't even know what to call them anymore.

Their account is worth $438 billion dollars, equivalent to the GDP of China, Russia and Finland, combined.

Normally I'd be itching to get in on that good freelance action. I'm sure agencies are paying top dollar for mercenary creatives like myself to dig in with both hands and crack the code that will lead to victory.

But that turns out to be my naivete speaking.

Last week I was reading about the review as reported on AgencySpy, which is quickly becoming the only legitimate news source for the industry. Equally enlightening are the AgencySpy comments left by trollers, recently fired employees, and surprisingly enough, people in the know.

Apparently, there is no code to be cracked.

The contest, between two mighty holding companies, will not be decided based upon 20th century criteria like creativity, design or strategic thinking. That's so passe.

No, like the way anything gets done in America, it will depend on cronyism, favor taking, margin trimming, and huge sums of money being passed under the table. Or in the Champagne Room at the Rack Shack.

You see, it's no longer about storyboards, scripts or anthems that carve out a unique point of view. That's all been commoditized. So much so that unlike days of yore when you could tell a Chiat/Day or Wieden & Kennedy spot from a JWT or McCann Erikson spot, now it all looks and feels the same.

And that's fine, let the bean counters have their day.

It's a sweet, savory reversal of fortune.

Because in the long feverish days and nights leading up to the pitch, I hope it's the Creatives who get to go home at 5.

And I hope it's the finance folks and the holding company execs who are eating Mushu Pork at 1 AM or assembling the Powerpoint decks on a hot Saturday afternoon without any fuckin' air conditioning!!!


We're about to pass an important milestone here at RoundSeventeen Headquarters located in the heart of formerly dumpy Culver City.

We're about to welcome our 500,000th visitor.

Never in my wildest dreams did I think we would be crossing this monumental, inspiring, critical and joyful threshold. By the way, the use of multiple adjectives is a good indication that my tongue is pressed firmly against my cheek.

I don't take this blog seriously and nor should you, (more on that later.)

I remember when I first started this blog and talked to my good friend, freelance art director and veteran blogger Laura Sweet . She reached the 1/2 million mark in her first week. Then again people have an inherent interest in all things style and fashion and couldn't care less about the ramblings of an underachieving 44 year old freelance copywriter.

"It'll start slow at first, but keep at it and soon you'll be averaging 1,000 hits a day and fighting off offers from clients who want to advertise on your blog."

Laura was right about the slow start and the need for persistence. But her calculations were a tad off and now after 8 years of plugging away, I'm seeing about 500 visitors a day. And last month we had an all time high in traffic, with more than 15,000 visits.



If I am to be completely honest, those first few years I was floundering and still trying to find the right voice. I cringe every time I look at some of the early posts. Did I really spend an entire week coming up with euphemisms for "dropping the kids off at the Pool?" Oy.

Hell, I cringe over the posts I wrote last week.

And apparently I'm not the only one.

Recently one anonymous reader has taken me to task for my insidious rants about ad agency Planning.

In anonymous comments that I no longer feel the need to publish, he or she (and by the way the sex of this reader does not matter) suggests I have been hateful and misogynistic.

He or she suggests I've caused he or she personal and professional doubt and depression.

Really? You're letting a non-accredited journalist, a frustrated copywriter with a Dropbox filled with non-strategic, un-produced campaign ideas, an insignificant blogger in a world full of insignificant bloggers, cause you to question your self worth?

He or she, claims I have been constant in my confrontation and relentless with my rhetoric. The fact is, I have shown restraint and for the sake of my 13 regular readers who enjoy a broad range of topics and who have visited here 1/2 million times, and limited myself to one Planning post a month.

So I can only deduce that he or she has been following this blog for a considerable length of time.

In which case he or she is probably reading these very words.

Let me be the first to offer you some simple advice. And by the way this didn't require months of research or Big Data analysis. Or any charts. Diagrams. Or Powerpoint decks.

If what I'm writing disturbs you, causes you undue harm or in your words "makes you feel like a total shit", then and here's the big reveal...

Stop reading.

I'm a Le Douchebag

You'd think I'd know better.

That after 30 some odd years...er, 20 some odd years, in the advertising business deluding people about the incredible horsepower of a shitty compact car or shooting chemically-injected painted chicken designed to flare up over a flaming grill, I would know that you can't always believe what you see.

Of course that didn't stop me from clicking an online shopping site, whipping out my credit card and laying claim to a brand new $80 LayBag.

Lured by its vaginal appearance and its incredibly simple inflation, I was convinced I needed one of these hipster contraptions. It's light. It's durable. And it'll be perfect for outdoor activities, a comfortable alternative to those stiff aluminum folding camping chairs.

Or so I thought.

Two months after ordering the damn thing, it shows up. Shipped to me by some laughing Swedes who are now counting their shekels and picturing lame Americans trying to inflate the oversized Zip Lock bag.

Because believe me it is not as simple as it may appear in many of the company's YouTube videos .

I spent the better part of the afternoon flailing the contraption around my back yard. I ran with it. I did circles with it. I tried to gulp the air into it the way a whale opens his mouth wide and captures a ton of kelp.

All, it appears, to be in vain.

When I tried to compress the air I did manage to get in the bag and roll up the ends, I was left with nothing more than a glorified 3 foot long ottoman, hardly the canoe-length couch I had been promised.

My wife and daughters, watching from the comfort of the family room, required ice on their necks to recover from all the hilarity they enjoyed at my expense. And here at the Siegel household we put a premium on laughter.

So, in a way, I did get my money's worth.


It's award season in advertising again.

I think we all know that from the flood of tweets and pictures from Cannes appearing on our Facebook feeds.

"Look, there's that Mucketty Muck Creative Director who didn't approve my Super Bowl spot. Doesn't he look like he's having a good time in his plaid shorts and his $120 Calvin Klein Crew Neck T-Shirt. I hope he drinks too much rose wine, eats some bad snails and blows chunks all over that CFO who tried to idiot-splain why the agency didn't have any money this year - or the past 5 years -- for bonuses, raises or new computers to replace the 2007 MacBooks. Oh and look, they're on a yacht."

Wait, where was I before I got diverted onto my tired Bernie Sanders like rant about the financial inequality plaguing the ad industry?

Oh yes, awards.

Well, before they can hand out the trinkets, trophies and metallic validation of our oh-so-disposable Skip Ads and Viral Stunts, there's an award judging season.

That's when cream of the crop creatives, from all over the land, are flown to exotic locations to sit in imperial favor and cast their discerning eyes on who and what shall be admitted to their inner circle.

Here too, we are often treated to a photographic collage of their international adventures via social media.

They're in Aruba.
In Fiji.
In Greece.
In Havana.
Any destination that manages to skirt the agency's restrictive rule on flying Business Class and earns these prestigious judges their precious pre-flight warmed chocolate chip cookie.

I use the term cream of the crop creatives because it is a status I have successfully avoided.

I came close in my day, but was always denied entry. In many ways it's like a high school cafeteria. I never sat with the football players and the cheerleaders, but occasionally managed to pull up a stool next to the lacrosse team equipment manager or the flag twirlers.

That is not to say that I have never been asked to judge a show.

A dozen years ago, I was invited to partake in the decision making for the Pele Awards. Never heard of them? Neither had I. Turns out they are a second tier local awards show for our ad colleagues living in Hawaii.

It rained the three days we were there. Apparently the Motel 6 was booked to capacity and my wife and I were put up at the Royal Illikai in the heart of Waikiki. There was nothing remotely royal about the place. And as we joked later, while fighting off food poisoning from room service spicy tuna poke, they managed to put the ILL in ILLIKAI.

As recently as 8 months ago, I was asked to judge another show. I can't even remember who it was for. I do remember that the work sucked and, even better, the judging was all online.

Fueling my wife's oft-heard complaint, "We never leave Culver City."


I've made it a habit to walk from my house to the Baldwin Hills Overlook about three times a week. It's a good 6.5 mile hike that includes two, sometimes three, up and downs of the mighty hill. On the way there, I walk by SafeWay Sandblasting.

There's always something interesting to see there. Or even on the way there.

Like this:


And this:


Or this:



I don't know what any of it has got to do with anything, but I've been extremely busy, it's the end of the week and I'm pooped.

A few years ago, two former colleagues --both copywriters--started a new online enterprise called ADWEAK. It was a satirical news page spoofing the insanity of the advertising business.

Because it was brash and brutally honest and because they cleverly used a stock photo of a fat, hairy swimmer as the editor of this fictitious magazine, many folks in the industry mistakenly assumed I was behind the venture.

I can't tell you how many phone calls and e-mails I had to field denying my authorship.

On the one hand it was flattering because their shit was really funny. On the other hand, I was still a staff guy at Chiat/Day with a rash of political problems that weren't being helped by this weekly sedition.

It wasn't me then, but it could be me now.

ADWEAK has evolved  and is no longer a full blown website. Now it is a Twitter feed with more than 20 thousand followers. That's a lot of exposure. And it's well earned. Because these guys continue to crank out premium material, though when pushed they will readily admit they steal ideas and inspiration from right here at RoundSeventeen.

But that's the beauty of satirizing the ad industry -- it's a target rich environment. Like shooting flatfish in a barrel.

Whether it's fat, drunk CEO's pawing the underlings or complaining about "Those Fuckin' Jews".

Or it's double-talking planners who couldn't strategize their way out of a paper bag.

Or, it's just Pepsi.

This deep well of nonsense, incompetence and monumental greed will never run dry.

And so it is with great pleasure that I am announcing my plan to throw in with the ADWEAK staff. I've just been named a Junior Correspondent and look forward to making my anonymous contributions to their twitter feed.

And I must say it's off to a good start.

On just the second day of the job, one of my tweets was liked by Lee Clow, which according to the editors of ADWEAK, has never happened in their 10 year online history.


In case you're wondering, the ADWEAK gig pays the same as the RoundSeventeen gig -- nothing.

So I'll still be available for all your chest-beating manifesto/ anthem/banner/page takeover needs.


I'm going to be perfectly honest, I'm in pain.

I've never had an addiction problem but what I'm going through feels a lot like withdrawal. All the symptoms are there. I'm aching. I feel a longing. A void that can't be filled. I'm sure the tremors will be rolling in soon.

You see, way back in April, I found myself entangled with an online chess opponent -- a German fellow. It should be noted that I've played Germans, Iraqis, and Syrians, online in randomly selected games. All without incident. Though I will admit beating these gents gave me added pleasure.

But this Bavarian was different.

In a clear breach of online netiquette, he started talking trash. At the same time he was questioning my skills, he was propping up his own in a manner that demanded a reply. And so I obliged.

What followed was a 51 day match that went way beyond the chessboard. The game ended when, left with no option, I was forced to resign. But now I am missing my German compatriot.

Those of you privy to my Facebook newsfeed watched the whole thing unfold. But, because today is a slow news day, I thought I'd recap the juicy affair through the magic of screen grabs.

Here's how it started.


It escalated quite quickly.


And then the German and Yiddish cursing began.


At which point I decided I would stretch the game to its maximum limits and use every bit of time allotted to me. Mostly because I sensed it made him mad. Very, very mad.




I tried, in vain, to calm him down.


And thought it was working.


For a few days he had gone silent and not responded.


Turns out, he was not the Bonsai type. Nor did he respond to one of my earlier submissions, a link of motivational posters. But I was not about to give up.


If he knew how his long bouts of silence were killing me, he would have remained silent and won the games being played on the board and on the screen.

But, true to Teutonic tradition, he lashed out. And I got to play some more.



It was at this point, after 50 some odd days, the game would end.


And as you can see, there will be no rematch.

Hence, the pain. The excrucriating pain.

Your silent prayers are welcome.


Last night, while watching the NBA Finals, Jeff Van Gundy had this say about small forward 35 year old Richard Jefferson, a guy who usually comes off the bench...

"He's amazing. Got this limitless, deep well of energy, I swear he's like the Energizer Bunny."

A truly remarkable statement considering the Energizer Bunny stopped being like the Energizer Bunny years ago.

If you'll recall the Bunny made its debut by busting through staid, formulaic commercials. You, the viewer, would get sucked into believing you were watching some terrible spot about a nasal spray, a body soap or a performance sedan, and then via the Fourth Wall, the Bunny would burst through and take the steaming piss out of the whole thing.

The underlying message: the batteries were so strong and so long lasting (qualities one wants in a battery) that the Bunny could not be stopped and would just Keep Going. And going. And going.

In the parlance of the day, it was Disruptive. And spawned a multi-million dollar spin-off industry of merchandise (see above.) It isn't often that an advertising idea gives birth to a Halloween costume, and a fine one at that. Grrrrrrrr.

Simple and effective, right?

Only it wasn't so simple. Because over the course of time the brain trust at Energizer twisted and contorted the idea until, ironically, there was no juice left in it.

(Full disclosure, I was freelancing at Chiat/Day and witnessed the whole draining affair.)

Keep Going was replaced, or nudged aside, with "That's Positivenergy™". I have no idea what that means. Nor, do I believe, do the Focus Group attendants who will say anything to collect their $75 and eat free tuna fish sandwiches and peanut M&M's.

It wasn't the first time a client took the goose that laid the golden eggs and offered to sacrifice it on the altar of mediocrity. Nor the first time an agency, a holding company agency, long-divested of a spine, responded by saying...

"Sure, Mr. or Ms. New CMO, we can do that. Here's the invoice for April."

Just recently, the agency handling the Dos Equis account retired the Most Interesting Man in the World. I suspect some Big Data mining executives and Digital Content Strategy Innovators came to the conclusion that people who drink beer want to see a younger, hipper spokesperson. Maybe a guy with a lumberjack beard, who can dance.

They literally took the best asset the brand had and put it on a one way death rocket to Mars.

We have yet to see what they will do to replace the Most Interesting Man in the World.

But I'm going to go out on a limb and predict it will be a lot less interesting.


Right now, as you are reading these very words, there are a group of privileged ad agencies creatives making their final preparations for the flight to southern France.

I'm going to assume it's not you because RoundSeventeen is really aimed at a different market, the working class of the ad industry, not the Kool Aid drinking Adverati -- and you know who they are.

They're at the haberdashery, carefully selecting their new $500 Pharrell-type hats.

Or at the dry cleaners picking up their white, off-white and Navajo-white Capri pants.

Or at home figuring out how to jam three weeks of fashionable summer apparel into a bag meant to accommodate only one. And consequently, how they will bury the baggage fee into their shrinking holding company per diem.

I get it.

Winning awards is great.

I'd be a hypocrite to say I didn't understand the thrill.

At one misguided point in my life it mattered. And I have the pencils, the CA Annuals and the Beldings, all in a box in the garage, behind the Chanukah decorations we don't put up anymore.

Because now, truthfully, it doesn't mean squat. Nor, I suspect, does it mean squat to the 100 leading CMO's and CEO's in this country who steward billions of dollars in advertising revenue.

Do you think Tim Cook at Apple knows who won the Titanium Lion for Best Experiential Display in the $250,000-$500,000 Category?

Do you think Sergey Brin from Google knows, or cares, who won a Gold Lion for 30 second TV?

Do you think Ian C. Read, CEO at Pfizer gives a rat's ass that his agency did not get Silver in the vaunted Best Analgesic Pain Relief Category?

The fact that we are giving out awards for pharmaceutical advertising tells you everything you need to know about the worthless trinket chasing that commands our attention and robs thousands of employees of a raise, an end of year bonus and decent toilet paper in the restrooms.

Because of some previously mentioned logistical errors and some behind the scenes political agendas (oh my) some of the best work I did as a staffer never got entered at the prestigious International Festival in France.

As a result I'm never going to have a Cannes Lion. But that's not going to stop me from being entirely happy.

I have crappy neighbors for that.


My daughter brought me a present the other day.

That's not unusual, daughters are always surprising their fathers with presents: watches, cufflinks, maybe a nice belt.

Not mine. She brings me a paper hat from In and Out and showers the gesture with all kinds of tongue-in-cheek heraldry.

"Father, we were out and about and I saw something very special and I wanted to get it just for you because you've done so much for me. Look, isn't this great?"

Yes, yes it is.

What she doesn't know and what she couldn't know is that she stumbled upon something I had long ago forgotten. A bit of nostalgia that one could argue was the leading indicator of my future vocation.

Let's back up the story a bit.

On a family vacation to the St. Lawrence River many, many years ago, we were all piled into the 1973 Rambler making our way up Route 81 through Central New York. From the highway you could spot the telltale iconic buildings of Syracuse University. My father exited the highway rather abruptly for a little detour to scope out the school. After the 25 minute impromptu visit, we returned to the air conditionless Rambler.

"Five years from now, that's where you're going to college," he announced.

And so it was. Despite my scholarship offers from nearby and the more affordable SUNY schools, I was going to be at one of the most expensive private universities in the country. Oh and guess who was footing half the bill?

As part of my father's rigorous character-building program, I was presented with a non-stop stream of bills for books, room and board and tuition.

So I worked.

At the Brockway Student Dining Hall. I put more hours in the dishwashing room there than I did for any labs, lectures or classes about the Czarist Influence On Early 18th Century Russian literature.  Hell, at the dining hall, I could make money, eat for free and steal ample slices of ham and bologna for in-room snacking.

In order to work in the dining hall I had to wear a disposable plastic apron as well as a disposable white paper hat, not unlike the one my daughter gifted me. And because the work in the dining hall was largely unbearable, washing dishes, scrubbing pots, mopping floors or refilling the ice cream tubs for JAPPY bitches who were never satisfied with the flavor selection, I was always stoned.

And because I was always lit, I made the most of the opportunity, grabbed a thick magic marker and wrote a pithy headline on the outside of each paper hat. The space was limited. And the type had to be large. What I didn't know, but know now, is that I was training myself to write billboards.

I wrote a new line for every shift. Most were bad. Some were good. I had saved hundreds of these paper hats in a box that sat in my parent's garage in Suffern, NY but sadly have been lost to time.

Not to sound too immodest, I literally had people coming up to me every day to see my new hat. And my new headline.

I put a lot of effort into those hats. Mostly with the mistaken notion that college girls really appreciate a man with a healthy sense of humor.

Turns out a plastic apron, a funny paper hat and a mop bucket was not the winning formula for getting laid.


Last week, business called.

I had to go to Las Vegas.

This is a city that brings back memories. Most of them fuzzy.

As a 22 year old, I went there with two high school buddies and did things that shall forever remain sealed in a bro-vault, that shall never be opened. Suffice to say I've never again exited a "Gentleman's Club" when the sun was already 2 hours into its day.

Later in life, I had visited the city with girlfriends, wives, friends and other couples. There was considerably less debauchery. But a lot more of my hard earned money being turned over to the casinos.

Now, it seems, I only go there for business.

Years ago I was summoned to the CES convention. I was put up at a very fancy hotel. And treated to a monumentally expensive dinner at the SW Steakhouse , where (and I'm looking at their current menu) you can enjoy a 4 oz. New York Strip Steak,  made from Kobe beef imported from the Hyogo Prefecture for only $220. If 4 ounces isn't enough you can increase the size of 100% Tajima Cattle steak for a mere $55 an ounce.

More recently, I was flown to Sin City and housed at the incredible Aria hotel, where everything in the room, and I mean everything, is controlled by an electronic remote control board. You want the shades up, there's a button for that. You want the closet doors to open, there's a button for that. You want the bidet in the bathroom to shoot water up your ass with the force of a fire hose, there's a button for that.

Last week, I was there for a project that will remain undisclosed.

It was a quick 32 hour turnaround that included two 5 hour drives, one 3 hour client meeting, one 2 hour dinner, one 90 minute show, and a hazy number of hours winning huge stacks of chips at the roulette table (first time ever). This was followed by endless gawking at the human zoo on Fremont street -- where two faux show girls were happy to exploit my intoxicated generosity and pose for some very embarrassing photos with me.




Why, you may be wondering would we forego the 45 plane ride and drive all the way to Vegas and back?

Well, the truth is, the mechanic at the Lexus dealership told me I had be using poor low octane gas in my car and that if I wanted to see better performance I needed to flush it out with a few tanks of the good high octane stuff.

So that's what Las Vegas has become to me -- an opportunity to perform some much needed automobile maintenance.

Damn, getting old(er) sucks.

12 Years A Slave-free Freelancer

Facebook sent me a reminder last week.

Linkedin.com sent me the same reminder today.

And my wife, in her own passive/aggressive manner, echoed the same sentiments recently when she said...

"It's been 12 years now, when are you going to get a real job?"

Well, I'm only 44 years old and it may be a bit premature to make any conjectures, but I'm pretty sure the job I have now, as a free-roaming, creative mercenary, will be the job that I have until I retire.

That is unless my bid to replace Sir Martin Sorrell as Chairman  of the WPP falls on unwilling ears.

How shortsighted of them not to even fly me out (business class) to NYC, put me up at a swanky old man hotel, not one of the Eurotrash Boutiques with the waterfall urinals, take me to a nice steakhouse, the kind where old Mafia captains would get shot, and hear out my proposals for righting the ship that seems eager to find its resting place at the bottom of the Marianna Trench.

But it's exactly that type of corporate myopia that has kept me at arm's length from the agency world.

A short arm to be completely accurate. Because let's face it, the bulk of my business still comes from the ad agencies, who call me and the growing battalions of freelancers, usually at the last minute, and usually with a hint of desperation in their breath:

"The client's not happy with the work they have been dictating to us for the last 18 months and wants to do something different -- a whole new brand direction. Can you come in Monday? And we can only afford you through Wednesday."

And I'm more than happy to oblige. To share my little schpiel about creativity  requiring time. And to make for them, one very expensive clock.

But, I'm even happier these days to be fielding calls directly from clients.

And this is happening more and more.

Projects from clients who see my age and my experience as an asset. Clients who are more than happy to save vital office space and want me to work remotely. Clients who trust in the process and do not require mid day, mid evening and mid morning check ins. Clients who actually want to hear my Lee Clow/Chiat/Day war stories.

There's a tidal wave of change coming to the business.

And maybe it's the flurry of recent bank deposits talking, but I think the next twelve years are going to be better than the first.

As I've mentioned before, I like to stay abreast on all industry news. I like to know where clients are going. Where employees are going. And where trends are going.

It's part and parcel of being a copywriter. I like to think I'm a good observer of human behavior.

It's how, for instance, I know that people don't want to give up the steering wheel for a driverless car. Or how they will never be convinced to eat pizza backwards. Or how, despite the horse-hockey dished out by management about greater collaboration and increased productivity, people do not want to work in an open office plan.

They just don't.

Of course, I never predicted the ascendancy of a two-bit, vulgarian with the orange merkin hat and the intellectual prowess of a bean bag, as a legitimate Presidential candidate, but then who did?

Lately, I've noticed a very troubling trend in the ad industry.

OK, there are many troubling trends in the ad industry, but this one is gaining steam.

Perhaps you've noticed it too.

An agency will hire a bevy of heavy hitting C-Suite executives. They have fancy titles. Impressive resumes. And they come furnished with their own professionally shot, heavily photoshopped 8 X 10 headshots. Any agency would be proud to have these tattooed wonders on board. Digital is their native language. And clients can't get enough of their paradigm-changing wisdom.

So says the press releases on AgencySpy

Then, a week, maybe two weeks later, that same agency -- and there are many I've seen doing this -- will "downsize" or "rightsize" or "trim the fat" and lay off a bevy of not-so-heavy-hitting staffers.

People who actually do the work. You know, the peons who gave up their nights and weekends and missed birthday parties for mismanaged new business pitches or last minute brand turnarounds.

Those folks.

It doesn't take a genius to spot this trend. The fact that I noticed it, is proof of that. But it certainly is indicative of the level of tone deafness that is increasing on a daily basis.

There used to be a joke, "don't let the door hit you in the ass on the way out."

Now, it's, "Don't let the door hit you on the way out and could you please hold it open for our new Chief Innovations Platform Anthropologist?"

The plan was to have boys.

Sturdy, durable, barrel-chested boys that I could whip into shape with a equal mix of humor and character-building hardship. They'd sport full heads of hair, thick mustaches, and chase rich women all around the globe while pursuing their interests in law, medicine and world championship chess.

But I had no luck producing the Y chromosome and that plan was quickly scrapped for another.

Let's be clear I love my two daughters. And with summertime approaching, both will soon be back under my roof. And despite the indescribably damage they can do to a shared bathroom or the ungodly mess they can make in the simple preparation of a sandwich, I wouldn't have it any other way.

Because the nattering, the bickering and the arguing about who gets to drive the Volvo will be over in the blink of an eye and they both will be returning to college before I can yell, "who backed up the toilet with the girly stuff?"

Here's the part I never saw coming.

When they return to UC (University of Colorado) and UDUB (University of Washington), two fine schools with two skyrocketing out-of-state tuition's, they will both be residing in sorority houses. That's right, sorority Houses!

Gammas.

Deltas.

Thetas.

Kappas.

And Epsilons.

What the hell plan was that? I never pictured myself as the father of sorority girls. When I was in college I'm pretty sure I secured a lifetime ban from ever entering a sorority house.

In fact, if you were to scour through the archives of student disciplinary reports at Syracuse University you'd discover that my inordinate ability to guzzle whiskey and beer combined with a unnatural reserve of nocturnal energy and predilection for destruction earned me a lifetime ban from the fraternity houses as well.

No small feat on any campus.

And now I'm just one embossed, gold-inked invitation away from some contrived father-daughter dance at the Gamma Delta Spring Pin Invitational. Or whatever the fuck they call it.

How did this happen?

That's my face on a dartboard.
Correction, that's my much younger face on a dartboard.

And if you are a Planner or you are involved with Strategy or the construction of briefs with their many triangles, trapezoids and parallelograms, not to mention bullet points, asterisks, and run on sentences, today is your lucky day.

Today is about retribution.

And getting back at the old 44 freelance copywriter.

You see, fresh off the chart-busting success of my previous book, Round Seventeen &1/2, the Names Have Been Changed to Protect the Inefficient , I began work on my next opus. That's right another book is on its way.

Regardless of what you've been told, people do judge a book by its cover and so a lot of time and thinking has gone into the packaging. I had already picked the design for the front and was going over the many options for the back. That's when it struck me, more accurately that's when a certain unnamed Planner from NYC who took exception to my current WPP campaign , because of my "tired hate the planner trope" struck me.

So I've decided to let Planners have their day.

And plaster the back cover of the new book with scathing, go-for-the-jugular literary reviews. It's not even important if they have read the book -- which if they have been following Round Seventeen, they have -- it's more about the opportunity to flip the table and turn the skewer into the skewee.

What do I mean?

Here's a picture of the back cover of Round Seventeen & 1/2:


It's littered with fake nasty reviews from real literary publications.

"Blowing out a candle does not make one a firefighter, any more than clacking away on a keyboard makes one a writer." -- Tim Farnsworth, Ploughshares.

The plan is do something similar.

Only with real quotes from real Planners.

This is not just an opportunity to flex your creative muscle. This is an opportunity to exact some measure of vocational vengeance. To vent. To lash back at the irrelevant dinosaur who has ruthlessly torn into your profession and left the bloody mess scattered about the blogosphere for all to see.

It's Open Season on the Creative Department.

Lock and Unload.

Winners will be selected based on wit, cruelty and inventive invective.


Sir Martin Sorrell receives an online petition from change.org   requesting Rich Siegel be made the new Chairman of WPP.

"Helen, what is this? I think my iPad has been hacked."

or

"Helen, have the IT guys add another block to my account: George Parker , Bob Hoffman  and Rich Siegel."

or

"Helen, alert the press, we have our new Chairman."

These are just some of the possible reactions to my impending candidacy. Of course none of this happens unless the petition reaches the bare minimum of a hundred signatures. At this writing we are 88% of the way there.

If we don't reach our goal, and thanks again to Gregg Bergan for starting the effort (without any prompting from me, BTW), then advertising as we know it will continue on its dreadful course.

You know what I'm talking about: thin margins, data-driven dreck and the proliferation of FFDKK, Frivolous Fuckwadian Digital Knick Knacks™.  It can change, but only if you take the requisite 3 minutes to click the link, sign your name, give a fake address and be done with it.

This month we've reached the highest traffic numbers ever in the 8 years I've been writing RoundSeventeen --about 15,000 page views.  And in that time I've never asked you for anything.

Except for the occasional call for new taglines.

Or the time I begged you all to buy my book, RoundSeventeen &1/2, The Names Have Been Changed to Protect the Inefficient.

Or the time I figuratively swam across the Straits of Gibraltar to raise $1200 for the Wounded Warriors.

Or a year later when I repeated the swim, only longer, across the English Channel to raise $4000 for our veterans.

OK, I have asked in the past, but most of you have just ignored me and enjoyed this semi-premium daily dose of humor absolutely free.

I've been digging around the very public financial records of WPP and discovered they (we?) command more than $19 billion in revenue. I can't promises, actually as the new Chairman, I can make plenty of promises. And $19 billion butters a lot of bread, wink, wink.

So, the 100 of you that get on the change.org list can look forward to many handsome rewards: an office with a window and a door that closes, weekends off, Saturdays AND Sundays, and a personal invitation to my end of Summer New Orleans-themed BBQ, I make a mean Sazerac.

Those of who didn't sign the petition will find yourself on a different list. One that I have committed to memory.

Did I mention I have the memory of an elephant?


You might not gather from reading this blog or even knowing me in person, but I like to think of myself as open-minded.

I'll eat new foods (particularly if they're spicy).
I'll drink new drinks (particularly if they're alcoholic).
And I'll work for new clients (particularly if they're paying well).

And so it was with great curiosity that my wife and I, while doing our regular hike up the Baldwin Hills Scenic overlook, came across a group of musicians playing in the pavilion erected for weddings, Bar Mitzvahs and other events where people might congregate for pigs in a blanket.

There, we saw a group of musicians cobbled together with no rhyme or reason (literally), "playing" before a spellbound crowd. We had been walking a good three and half miles before we stumbled upon the trio and had assumed we got there just as they were warming up.

There was a lot of tuning up.
A lot of random note playing.
A lot of silence, in between the short spasms of sound.

Little did we know, this was the "music".

Even more confounding were the throngs of people pushing through to get a good seat to listen, I'm sorry, experience, this one-of-a-kind performance. We waited and waited and the music never seemed to get going.

So we laughed and decided we had better things to do with our time -- maybe clean fish or snake the drain in the shower or refill the window washing fluid in the Acura.

Anything.

So on the way out we stopped by the admissions desk and grabbed a flyer with more information and a schedule of upcoming events. I'll want to save the date for those.

Turns out the entire extravaganza was put on (and I use the words 'put on' intentionally) by the quintessentially Los Angeles, SASSAS -- Society for the Activation of Social Space through Art and Sound.

I wish I had video captured the event -- which was like every Woody Allen trope about Southern California all baked into one Bundt cake. Sadly, I didn't.

But SASSAS has thoughtfully archived hours and hours and hours of their musicians, in what can only be described as the Shoah of Performance Art.

To wit:




Even though the event was free, I still wanted to ask someone for my money back.

Sent to me by my daughter, from the campus of the University of Washington.

Apparently the Students for Justice in Palestine or the Popular People for the Liberation of Palestine or the PLPF or PPFPL (obscure Life of Brian reference) have adorned one of the campus quads with fake tombstones to commemorate the loss of life in the resistance.

What these ill-informed students fail to realize, or more accurately choose to ignore, is that the loss of life in Gaza or on the West Bank is largely due to Palestinian provocation.

Had these innocent "freedom fighters", walking through the streets of Jerusalem or Haifa, not whipped out a 10 inch kitchen knife and tried to stab an Israeli on his or her way to work or the bakery or the dry cleaners, they would still be breathing fresh air.

Similarly, had the tunnel-builders in Gaza not fired off homemade rockets or rockets smuggled in from Iran and launched them across a sovereign border, they too would be eating falafels and not pushing up daisies in some hardscrabble parking lot which by the way with a little work and elbow grease could be an incredible oceanfront resort on the Mediterranean Sea. Or a school. Or a hospital.

Of course that's never been the Palestinian way.

They prefer victimhood to livelihood.

Or as one Hamas leader famously put it,

"We love death more than you love life."

If that statement is to be believed, shouldn't my daughter's imbecilic classmates at the University of Washington be thanking the State of Israel?

Were they to open their eyes and look at the entire region they'd notice equal rights, safety and security are found exclusively in the Jewish state, where women --showing their face no less-- drive cars, gay people are not thrown from rooftops and Arabs openly serve in the Knesset, that's the Israeli parliament for those of you not up on the region.

Most perplexing however, is the deafening silence from these "students" with regards to the 300,000+ people gassed, bombed and murdered just a few hundred miles to the north in neighboring Syria.

And the 5 million refugees displaced from their homes, at the hands of their fellow Arabs, now pouring into Europe, not Turkey, Lebanon, or Egypt.

If they were to construct a graveyard marking those figurative and literal victims, they'd need considerably more empty space than what they found on the campus at UDUB.


Don't know about you, but I make it a point to stay on top of industry news.

It's good to know which companies are losing accounts. And which companies are winning accounts -- which they will no doubt lose once the "branding" campaign fails to generate more than 138 Facebook likes or 79 Youtube views and franchisees/dealers/VC investors demand the agency start moving the needle.

But as I tell other freelancers, or creatives who are forced to freelance because they Got Quit, turmoil is your best friend.

It's also good to stay abreast on who is getting promoted.

Last week, I noticed several folks took on new and semi-important titles. I'm sure these promotions were followed by celebratory mylar balloons, nominal social media congratulations from jealous colleagues and a lot of hemming and hawing from the Executive Suite:

"Congratulations, you now have the title and responsibilities of a Group Creative Director. But uh...we don't have any more money for you. We've all got to tighten the belt. I'll tell you more about your new job when I come back from Cannes."

Who wouldn't want get promoted, right?

Well, it's taken me 44 years, but I'm here to tell you it's all Fool's Gold.

Particularly in the creative department of an ad agency, where the goal is to finally be the one who decides what gets shown (and hopefully sold) to the client and what gets left in a deck that will never been by anyone but the janitorial staff.

Guess what Mr. or Ms. Young Group Creative Director, you're not the one making those important decisions. And neither is the guy or gal above you. Or even above them.

In fact, unless you have your name on the door and your mugshot is the first one people see on the agency website, you have no more voice in the matter than the Assistant Associate Content Strategist, who only last year was organizing the bake sale at the University of Wisconsin chapter of Kappa Kappa Gamma.

In today's world of advertising, and this happens in every agency from Portland, Maine to Portland, Oregon, the Chief Creative Officer is a not an officer at all.

He or she is a Committee.
A Council.
A Partnership.
A Board.
A Panel.
A Bureau.
A Conclave.
A Tribunal.
A Junta.

And I've only reached the third paragraph of the online thesaurus.

Years ago, you'd hear many agency people derisively call Focus Groups, Fuck-Us Groups.

In our collective race to the bottom, we have successfully pre-empted those soul-sucking gatherings of know-it-all housewives and deadbeat tuna fish sandwich hoarding dads, and internalized our own everyone-gets-a-voice, politburo-like processes. Yeah, Go Team!

On the death of creativity, I have seen the enemy.

And it is us.


Last week I declared my candidacy to replace Martin Sorrell as Chairman of the WPP organization, one of the world's largest advertising holding companies.

Many of you mistakenly read the piece as nothing more than Swiftian delight, an exercise in hyperbole and inside-the-park trade satire.

Wrong.

So very wrong.

You see, on this matter, I'm as serious as a missing page in a PowerPoint deck. I really should be the next WPP Chairman. For the reasons I spelled out earlier last week  . And for many more, which I will put forth today.

First, let's talk about the criteria that guides all decisions in the advertising world -- the creative quality of the work. (Cupping ear with left hand) Oh, I'm being told that is no longer the case and the number one criteria governing decision making is now, wait for it...Money.

Fair enough.

As has been reported in the trades, Sir Martin Sorrell's compensation package including stocks, options and "performance" bonuses over a 5 year period was approximately $120 million USD.

You can be sure other potential candidates will be swinging for the same fence. But this 44 year old freelance copywriter will not.

I'm gonna do the gig for less. Substantially less.

I'm a man of modest needs. I don't like wearing suits. Or hard leather shoes. I don't need $100 haircuts. I trim my own mustache. I like Knob Creek and Maker's Mark, but have no problem drinking Jack Daniels. Get me near a pool, some free weights and a hiking trail and I won't need any expensive gym memberships. Plus, I like driving my 2007 Lexus LS 460, so I don't need any new fancy wheels.

And because I like round numbers, WPP, I'm in for an easy $10 million a year. Easy.

I haven't even talked about the money spent on traveling. I don't like flying. I don't like the food in London. Paris makes me feel claustrophobic. And a $5 million Brownstone in New York? Won't be necessary.

I'm prepared to perform all my duties as Chairman of WPP from the comfort of my home in Culver City. I would however put in for a new Herman Miller chair as the mesh netting on my current model is beginning to yield to the constant pressure of my 200+ lbs. butt.

I understand as the titular head of such a large organization that I will need to make some appearances east of La Cienega Blvd., and here again my modest nature will pay handsome dividends to the WPP organization.

You see I am more than willing to fly Business Class. I don't need the exorbitant and wasteful niceties found beyond the faux crushed blue velvet curtain. Give me a wide seat and promise I'll never have to eat the Beef Stroganoff they serve in Coach and I'm good.

Special Note: I get to fly Business Class even if travel time is less than 6 hours. I know HR and Finance people get sticky on this but on this point there can be no negotiation.

I'm running out of room and I haven't even discussed my platform or policy changes, which I think many women, brown people and Fucking Jews will appreciate. In the next few weeks I shall continue to use this digital soapbox to lay out my qualifications for the job as your new chairman of WPP, which originally stood for Wire and Plastic Products.

Here too, we see how life has come full circle. My first job, other than running two newspaper delivery routes, was working in my father's office in downtown Manhattan at the Brownell Electro Company, the nation's 138th leading distributor of industrial electrical wiring spools.

And my intimate knowledge of wire products did not end there. Upon landing in California after college, I also drove a forklift at the Brownell Electro warehouse in Compton. And stood shoulder to shoulder with many Crips, Bloods and former residents of the Department of Corrections.

In other words, I'm a man of the people.

And I will be a man of your WPP people.


If you're like most dog owners -- maybe "owners" isn't the right terminology, god knows I don't want to offend anybody -- you pick up food for your dog at the supermarket. Or at the PetCo. The PetSmart. The PetBox, whatever. And if your dog has special needs, maybe you go to one of Los Angeles' many doggie boutiques.

In any case, you slap your money on the counter and they fork over the food.

What a lucky bunch you are.
You see, apparently I'm not like other dog owners, again I apologize.

A couple of years ago, Nelly, pictured above, had her gall bladder removed. Her liver was malfunctioning and her enzyme count was too low. Or too high, I don't remember. I do remember shelling out a semester's worth of college tuition money to remedy it all.

And as you can tell from the smile on her face, it was well worth it. I'm no poet and don't have the faculties to put into words what it is we get from dogs, I only know that we do. And knock on wood that the 14 years we have enjoyed with Nelly will go another 14.

My wife says I'm being stupid and unrealistic.
But it's not the first time I've heard that.

Since the surgery, Nelly has been on Prescription Dog Food.

Prior to all this, I had no know idea there even was prescription dog food. I suspect you hadn't as well.

I grew up in a middle class suburban neighborhood that still bore it blue class roots. When dogs or cats got sick, or caught a cold or broke a leg, they simply put 'em down. There were no veterinary hospitals or 100,000 square foot warehouses filled with automatic water dispensers, electronic fences and lambskin doggie beds.

There was Ralph on the corner, selling replacement puppies.

But times are different. And since switching over to the prescription dog food there has been a remarkable improvement. So much so that we decided to keep Nelly on these low fat, gastrointestinal FDA-approved nuggets of protein, protein and more protein.

On my last visit to the one store in Los Angeles that carries these foul smelling, fishy meat pellets, I was told my prescription card had expired. Meaning, if I didn't get it renewed I would no longer be able to get Nelly's fix.

All of which has me wondering, is there some kind of Prescription Dog Food Black Market that I'm unaware of? A Mexican Cartel of K9 Nutrition Profiteers?

"Yo homie, check it out. I got ten kilos of free range chicken. This is the good stuff man."

I'm not one of those people who prattle on about the Nanny State. I understand the need for limited regulation. But doesn't the government have better things to be doing?

Like monitoring public restrooms.


Last week it was announced that Sir Martin Sorrell, Chairman of WPP, one of the world's largest advertising holding companies, has begun the search for a replacement.

I know this is normally not done, but I'd like to throw my proverbial 'hat in the ring.'

Let's start where all good arguments start, with Maurice Levy, Chairman of rival Publicis, another one of the world's largest advertising companies. Who said, quite publicly...

"Whoever succeeds Sorrell needs to be a good human being -- not wicked and nasty, generous and not greedy, sharing and not selfish or egotistical."

With the exception of egotistical, I believe I measure up to all those criteria.

Despite my gruff writings, I am a good human being. I put the seat down. I pet puppies. I give dollar bills to people standing at the end of freeway exit ramps, unless I judge from their appearance that they are going to spend the money on drugs or airplane glue.

And I am in possession of a good working moral compass. That alone separates me from 75% of the potential field.

I'm not wicked and nasty, though I have been known to exhibit a short fuse with people in the office who are: a.) stupid, b.) incompetent, c.) drunk, or d.) all of the above. This, I would contend, is an indicator of leadership.

And to Mr. Levy's last point, I believe I am generous and share easily. On more than one occasion I have used this blog to take a stand on greater profit sharing for all agency employees. I've railed against C-Suite money grabbing. And have always gone out of my way, in presentations and/or interviews to use the "we" word and acknowledge the contributions of my partners, even if they wasted countless hours watching Internet porn.

My fabricated endorsements don't stop there.

At the recent International Andy Awards Festival , my former boss and advertising icon Lee Clow said:

"Every ad agency should be led by a creative person."

Some might argue that Clow was referring to a thoroughbred recognized creative with a closet full of awards and odd-sharped acrylic trophies.

I never picked up a Cannes Lion, mostly because the one agency coordinator "accidentally" omitted our ABC submission, two years in a row, but I am in possession of a 1997 LuLu Silver and a 2004 Telly Award, ok, it was Merit of Excellence.

You might be thinking, "Rich, you're a 44 year old freelance copywriter, what do you know about business, real business?"

I'll grant you I'd need some boning up on the bean counting. But my father was CPA. My uncle is a CPA. And my brother is a CPA. Plus, I'm Jewish. I don't know if you've heard, but we're good with money.

Last week I bought chlorine for the backyard jacuzzi. I found an online source that sells the 5 lbs. jug for the same price as the 3 lbs. jug found at the brick and mortar store. Saved 42%.

Booya!

I don't know how this is all going to go down. But for all my friends at Team Detroit, JWT, Y&R, Possible, etc., you need to stuff those ballot boxes, lobby hard for me, and sign all your time sheets with: Siegel for WPP Chairman.

Do that, and I promise:

-- More free Bagels

-- Offices for everyone

-- The abolishment and/or reduction of Frivolous Fuckwadian Digital Knick Knacks™


Let's say you're on your way to work.

Maybe your day started a bit earlier than normal. Maybe the neighbor's dog managed to sneak through the gate and get out before the sun has risen. And maybe, for no apparent reason started barking, loudly, at the cinder block wall.

On your way to work and the never-ending slog up Stinking' Lincoln Blvd. you spot this young lass twirling a sign like a veteran Chinese Plate Spinner. And you think to yourself, "Yes, bacon and eggs does sound good." And, "Yes, I happen to have two dollars and ninety nine cents in my possession."

So you "treat" yourself to a spontaneous breakfast at Norms.

That's how these sign spinning things work.

And as you've probably noticed, it's not just apropos of greasy spoon diners.

Apparently, this ubiquitous marketing can induce a spur of the moment car washing, the preparation of one's income tax returns or even the purchase of a new home.

I get it.

But imagine my surprise, when leaving the gym the other day, I spotted this fellow.

(Note: I literally drove past him, then a mile and half later decided it would be worth a trip to circle back and get his picture. Ironically, the guy holding and spinning the sign was so stoned he didn't mind posing for me.)



Let that sink in for a second.

It's a man holding a sign (though they really should have sprung for the giant arrow shaped model) coaxing drivers into the Playa Medical Urgent Care Center.

I'm trying to picture how that works.

"Mmmm, I've had this open sore on my forehead. And now it's starting to ooze. And oh, damnit some of that pus just got in my mocha frappaccino. But wait, there's an Urgent Care Medical Center that can tend to the gaping hole in my skull and guarantee future specialized coffee drinks will not be besmirched by my unwanted and unsavory bodily fluids. Ooo, and they offer validated parking."

Since I was up close and personal with the sign spinner, who honestly did a lot more shimmying and shaking than spinning, I asked him up why they had him out there on the corner.

"I don't know, man. I guess they just trying drum up some business. They need the the money. Something about a lawsuit."

Wow.

Dirty (I've been inside there once before), desperate and currently under litigation, everything I'm looking for in a health care facility.

Planners may want to plan to look the other way

If you find yourself getting excited and want to board the bus for the 2016 Planning-Ness Conference  --Oh yeah that's a real thing -- well, don't.

The magic markers have been put away. The whiteboards have been scrubbed clean. And the assemblage of our industry's best and brightest thinkers/makers/linguistic gymnasts have already disassembled, returning to their respective agencies, ready to semantically torture any junior copywriter or art director within earshot.

The 2016 Planning-Ness Conference, God, I love saying that, was last week.

I could not attend as I was actively engaged in real advertising -- writing BOGO ads for a leading maker of eyewear, building traffic for a software distributor and crafting a Summer Sales Event for one of America's leading automakers.

"Hurry in now cause Summer's going fast and so are these deals."

You know, the stuff that keeps the lights on and pays the salary of account coordinators and holding company officers alike.

Selling shit.
Moving merchandise.
Making Skip ads.

I didn't have time or the inclination to make it to some of the rigorous, informative sessions:


How to Have a Good Day.

How to Design for Happiness.

How to Find your Yoga
(no touching your toes or yoga pants required)


By the way, if you were to check the link, you'd see those were actual forum titles. I'd like to say that I made them up, but I didn't.

I take a lot of guff for the way I manhandle planners and poke fun at whatever it is they do or purport to do, but the truth is I could never out-mock the self-mockery found within the hallowed halls of the 2016 Planning-Ness Conference -- did I mention how much I love saying that?

Lest you think I am alone in my open contempt, you should know, I am not.

I receive emails and texts, almost on a daily basis, from fellow writers and art directors who thank me for my tireless battle with those who would enslave us with their 9 page briefs, indecipherable trapezoids and parallelograms and jargon-fested word salads.

In fact, a hat tip goes out to one of these unnamed copywriters for alerting me to the 2016 Planning-Ness Conference. As well as an equally-amusing Tumblr called Planners Talking Planning .

From there, I give you this amazing navel-gazing video which manages to illustrate everything I've been saying for the last 8 years of blogging in just the first minute and 37 seconds.

  To be honest I couldn't, like, you know, like, get past that, you know, like, point:



Perhaps as a counterweight to all this I should reserve a bus and a hold my own seminar next year:


I have always wondered how good photographers are able to snap pictures worth looking at. How hard can it be? You point the camera and click the button. It's something any idiot can do.

Except this idiot.

I had an uncle, or a cousin, my father was never good with keeping track of family, who was a professional photographer. He must have been good. He had a house on Long Island. And he drove a Cadillac.

In those simpler times you could always tell who was successful. They drove Cadillacs. Either they were very good at their job. Or they were mobbed up.

My oldest daughter has a good eye for photography. Her art teachers always told us she was uniquely talented in this arena. But she has decided to forego that interest in Photography for the more lucrative field of Public Health Administration.

In any case, the writing muscle needs a little R&R today, so I've decided to share some photos I found on my iPhone.


Spotted at a welding shop on Jefferson Blvd. on my near daily walks to the Baldwin Hills Overlook.




 Taken at the Baldwin Hills Overlook.


Last week we hiked Fryman Canyon, where an old VW Thing had fallen over the crest and been buried in the ground. I convinced my reluctant wife to sit in the car.




For no apparent reason.

And finally, to end on a laugh...

I was told by those who know, that when both my daughters left the house last September, my wife and I would find unexpected pleasure in the Empty Nest.

I wrote these people off as kooks.

Possibly misanthropes who did not love or enjoy their children as much as we did. There was no way I could take joy in my girls being away. A thousand miles to the north and the east.

I had the hardest time with the beginning of their college adventures.

But now one of the messy birds has returned to the nest. And with the completion of coursework in Early 17th Century Russian Furniture Upholstery and Organic Chemistry 101, the other one will not be far behind.

Oh shit.

The second bathroom upstairs already looks like a landfill of make up, and wet brassieres and other mysterious feminine toiletries I know nothing about.

The kitchen sink is full of dishes that can't go in the dishwasher, because last night's load has not yet been emptied.

And the neighbors have once again begun shooting me dirty looks for taking up valuable parking space on the street with our three vehicles.

Oh and the good sharp Irish cheddar cheese I like to treat myself to, is all but gone. There's not enough to make one nacho.

It's still mid-Spring and I have a whole Summer of this mishegas to look forward to.

Perhaps this bout of grumpiness has also been compounded by the fact that I am dealing with a Strep Throat. Infected by a germ that was no doubt living peacefully in Boulder, CO but managed to attach itself to my daughter's 113 lbs. of luggage, board a Southwest Airlines 737 and take up residence in my previously unswollen salivary glands.

Oh well, I always have that prescription cough medicine. Mmmmm, sweet nectar of relief and possible dizziness and euphoria.

Also, by the end of August, when it's time for them to go back to school, I'll be singing a different tune.


As the tagline, which I haven't changed in more than two years, of this blog indicates, I never sugarcoat. Telling the brutal honest truth may not be the most brilliant strategy. But it's the only one I've got. And it's a little late in the game to change the filter. Or buy a new one.

Part of the "all truth, all the time" philosophy means coming clean with myself. And so I am here to confess I am the world's worst reader.

My wife, who at times is a voracious reader, will often point that out. Sometimes to perfect strangers.

We could be at a party.

"Hi, I'm Debbie, a sales rep for Harvard Business Review. This is my husband Rich. He's a writer. But he doesn't read any books."

She takes great pleasure with my incongruous illiteracy.

It's painful. And I'm trying to remedy the situation. Scattered among my files, mostly TV commercial scripts and screen grabs of Kim Jung Un, I have lists --100 Books You Must Read Before You Die.
Suggestions by Ernest Hemingway, top English professors, even BuzzFeed.

I'll buy the books, but never get around to reading them. It's hard to commit time to reading when LeBron James is running up and down the hardwood or when the Internet is teasing me with can't miss videos. Did you see the one of the bear eating a handful of habanero peppers?

But I have made more of an effort, and succeeded, with a few books written by David Sedaris. He's dark. He's twisted. And he writes in a style that is conducive to reading, in that I can pick up one of his books and find myself thoroughly entertained for 3 hours at a clip.

And so a few months ago, I suggested my wife and I attend a book reading he was doing at Royce Hall on the campus of UCLA. The same building where my synagogue, overflowing with congregants, holds it High Holy Day services.

In fact, the seats we had to listen to Sedaris were just a few rows in back of the seats we normally sit in to listen to God. I'll tell you right now. Sedaris is funnier and more compelling than the Host of Hosts, Our Almighty Father.

I, for one, would much rather hear about Sedaris buying culottes, an interesting sartorial choice that enables optimal scrotal ventilation, than King Solomon slaughtering lambs and taking on the Babylonians.

Prior to this evening, I hadn't been to too many book readings and did not know what to expect. I'm here to tell you I may be going to many more. I can't remember when I laughed so hard.

In between the hilarious stories, David would litter the evening with tiny anecdotes, how he goes about writing, and a tiny glimpse into the life of a celebrated author. He tells of one fan who purchased two books, one for himself and for his estranged mother.

"Mr. Sedaris, this book is for my hateful mother. Can you inscribe it with something incredibly disturbing?"

Dear Miriam,

Your son left terrible teeth marks on my cock.

Best,

David Sedaris


Like the title says, An evening of high culture.

Oh no, I can hear you muttering, we've reached that point in the RoundSeventeen Self Promotionpolluzza where Siegel whips out old ads in a desperate attempt to remain relevant and contemporary.

Yeah, that's why I posted an old full page newspaper ad. Because nothing says contemporary and ready to tackle the new media landscape like 400 square inches of pulp-based antiquity.

The truth is, I was nosing around my garage, weeping over old photo's of the kids -- photos you could actually hold in your hand, by the way -- and came across across this classic from 1994.

For those of you keeping track, I was 22.

Also, perhaps by fate, I came across an interview with my former boss Steve Hayden, the original copywriter on the classic 1984 Super Bowl commercial.

Steve was one of my favorite bosses. He's a tall silver-haired man with the kind of upper crust whiteness you'd expect to find in a restricted Connecticut golf club. He's also incredibly smart, professorial PhD smart.

But his appearance is completely deceiving.

Because not far below that intimidating surface is a self-deprecating, prank-loving, mischief maker who could hold his own with any 14 year old. Sometimes I can tell a story and make people laugh. Steve can tell a story and make people snort all manner of liquids through their nose.

He was also my mentor during those turbulent days at BBDO, working with the Apple client. As I describe on my resume, these were the dark, rudder-less, Steve Jobs-less days in Cupertino and the company was literally circling the drain.

My partner and I had the good fortune to draw this assignment -- celebrate and thank the makers of the original Mac computer. And rereading the body copy, I like to think I was able to mimic the distinctive Apple voice.




If memory serves, there was a follow up on the very next page that read, "And Why 2001 will not be like 2001." (I can't find that ad) But I do remember we had to secure permission from the author of 2001, A Space Odyssey book, Arthur Clark, who was living in the swampy suburbs of Mumbai.

It isn't often that advertising facilitates such close contact with the iconic forces that have shaped our culture.

Pretty...pretty... heady... stuff.

And I consider myself very lucky.

Had it not been Apple and had it been 2016, a thank you sentiment from a client would have merited nothing more than a 1/4 page ad in the back of the program at the San Luis Obispo Dinner Theater presentation of Guys and Dolls.

Parking validated with a stamped admission ticket.

Honey Badger Do Care


In my early days as a staff copywriter I was told -- on many occasions -- that I cared too much.

I was raised to believe that if I was going to do a job I might as well do it right. So caring too much never made any sense. There were other cliches as well. All equally baffling.

"You need to learn to pick your battles."

"Don't fall on your sword so often."

"I think your works sucks, but don't take it personally."

As I've mentioned on this blog before, that led to a great many heated confrontations. Rightly or wrongly, in hindsight mostly wrongly, I took great pride in my work and what I put on the table.

Eventually the hairs on my head stopped growing. The hair in my ears started. And my skin got thicker. Meaning I became more immune to the slings and arrows aimed squarely at my ideas.

I'm 44 now.
No longer a staffer, but a sniper.
Just a paid mercenary to come in, take the shot, and collect a check.

The wisdom that was wasted on my youth is finally sinking in. I think I've finally kicked this annoying caring habit.

Well, almost.

Last week I was hired to do a job, remotely. I was dealing directly with the Chief Creative Officer. Who was looking for platforms, TV scripts and digital engagement ideas. In other words, my perfect working conditions.

At the end of each day, I would send my progress to the remote location. And at the beginning of the next day I would receive feedback. This is where it gets tricky, because it's hard not to care when the reactions goes something like this (not to violate any NDA's but these are verbatim):

"Great stuff."

"LOL, Love you, Rich."

"Awesome."

"FUUUUKKKKKK, these are perfect."

Each of these appreciative quips were followed by a detailed lengthy directive on what was expected next. Orderly, concise, and to the point because it came directly from the top. For one brief week I actually enjoyed what I was doing and had some fun at this advertising business.

I hope that's not going to be a problem.

Playing with Fire.

It has now become a weekly occurrence.

One of the trade magazines, Adweek, AdAge or AgencySpy, will announce the hiring or promotion of one or several executives to high level positions. With it, comes the obligatory, carefully-styled press photo.

If in that photo, there is not one woman, one African American, or one member from the LGBT community (though I don't know how he or she would be possible to identify) the social justice warriors kick it into high gear.

It is as automatic as the folks at WingStop getting my order all wrong.

This is not to say that I don't understand.
I do.

I agree that the business is dominated by young, soft handed, white dudes with an overabundance of lumberjack shirts and stupid over-manicured beard cuts. And I fully concur that the industry would be much improved with a heaping helping of diversity -- including some more old people in the Creative Department, I never hear that from the outraged keyboard clackers.

Once more, I also understand that even going near this topic is opening myself up to a torrent of criticism. Thankfully, I'm getting to a point in my career where I can speak my mind, because frankly I don't give a shit what people want to believe about me.

Truth is, I hear and read a lot of complaining about this scenario, but very little in the way of concrete solutions. Allow me to suggest that the answer may be in gardening.

Gardening?
Yup.

You see an ad agency is like a tree. For it to grow and bear sweet, juicy fruit, it needs pruning.

First, let's get rid of C-Suite Ass Nuggets -- People who make rape jokes. Bosses who manage up and never see the people beneath them. Drunks, drug users and anyone, particularly CEO's, who operate with a broken moral compass. Or, more precisely, no moral compass at all. That's a good place to start.

Second, let's identify the redundancies -- An account, even a difficult account, does not require a legion of Planners. We already have too many cooks in the kitchen. Do we need too many recipes as well? One planner, on one account, should suffice. And if you've been reading RoundSeventeen for any length of time you know that even one, may be one too many.

Third, let's keep identifying the redundancies -- Sorry to get repetitive, but the planning department is by no means the only culprit. How many times have you walked into a meeting to discuss a banner or a down and dirty 15 second spot and been confronted with an army of attendees? What the hell do all these people do? Making Skip Ads is just not that complicated. It's not.

Fourth, let's put the management in Management -- How is it that an assignment can change 5 times in the course of two days? Why are the people with MBA's and supposed logistical expertise not able, or willing, to steer a client? And guide them along a well-thought out path towards an agreed-upon goal? I suspect there's more order and efficiency in the governmental offices of Mogadishu in Somalia.

And finally, let's respect our elders -- This one is self-explanatory. And if it's not, consider the fact that a tree's growth and sustainability are a largely function of a quality root system.

If we took any or all of these suggestions and pruned wisely, there'd be more room at the top, and everywhere in between for women, African Americans, Asians, Latinos and gay people.

Oh and old guys.

Did I mention old guys?

Can you keep it down?

If you know me at all -- I've only given you 1439 posts on this blog to manage that meaningless feat -- you know there is nothing I treasure more than peace and quiet.

If you've seen me in my natural environment, sitting in my Herman Miller chair, hands on the keyboard, and littering the Internet with random snarky comments, there's a better than 95% chance I'll be wearing my Bose Quite Comfort 15 over-the-ear-headphones.

I've now owned two pair in the course of 6 years and gone through enough AAA batteries to power a a jerry-rigged, broke-down Polish submarine around the world.

I'll watch sporting events on TV while wearing them.

I'll occasionally nap wearing them.

I've even worn them through a meal with my wife. She's fine with that and doesn't want to listen to me drone on anymore than you do.

Now, as you can see from the picture above, I have a new weapon in my arsenal to wage in the never-ending battle against unwanted noise -- whether it be barking dogs, my neighbor's annoying 6000 horsepower Ford Mustang or the 5 AM reverse beeping alarm of a garbage truck at nearby Sony Studios.

(Editorial Note: If you're standing behind a garbage truck at 5 AM in the pitch darkness of early morning and you don't have the good sense to get out of the way of a 10 ton vehicle, precipitating the need for a high pitched alarm that travels miles in all directions, you deserve to be run over and crushed like a worthless penny at a carnival midway.)

These new HUSH earplugs just arrived this morning. I'm tempted to spit out my coffee, shed my cargo shorts and climb back into bed just to try them out. I'm so excited I'm like a kid on Christmas morning, only without all that screaming and jumping up and down and excitement.

OK, bad metaphor. I'm more like an old Jew on the morning of Yom Kippur. Wake me up when I can eat.

I discovered these newfangled earplugs online and gladly signed on during their Kickstarter campaign.

Were they expensive? You're damn right they were expensive. But I've decided my daughters need to start dating men of wealth so I can spend some of their inheritance money on Me.

I'm pretty sure these new French made gadgets are going to do the trick.

After all, anytime an enemy has come knocking on their borders or threatened the sovereignty of the French nation, they've been pretty good at ignoring it and sleeping through the whole affair.

I know, a cheap joke, but I'm already getting sleepy.


The Lost Art of Storytelling

Know the difference between a 44 year old copywriter and a 24 year old copywriter?

About 30 seconds.

Allow me to rant, because if I don't get this out of my system my intestines will start a mutiny, half the house will come uninhabitable and my wife, generally of pleasant disposition, will hound me about the placement of my running and hiking shoes in every room but the closet.

As it has been pointed out to me in many private emails and direct messages, I go to great lengths (and possibly take too much pleasure) in pointing out the vocational flaws of my younger colleagues.

I'd love to stop.
Really, I would.
But this one particular pet peeve happens with such regularity, I dare say it's like clockwork.

I'll be summoned to a creative check in. For you laymen, that's when copywriters and art directors are called upon to genuflect before their superiors -- the Planners and the Account Executives -- and present the work they have developed, you know, since the last creative check in, 5 hours ago.

It is a fascinating study in agency dynamics, where one can witness career jockeying, pointless posturing and the full range of modern day office backstabbing techniques. It's also where I get to see the next generation of creatives present their hastily-assembled ideas.

And when I say "ideas", of course I mean their regurgitated drivel that manages to click off every box, tonal instruction, support point and mandatory found on the planning brief.

This is where the inexperience shows. Because the reading of a typical 30 second TV script can often last 7-8 minutes.

You know you're in trouble when you hear the rustling of the paper and the young copywriter takes a breather, a sip of water from his or her  plastic water module, and turns to Page Two of the script.

Here's a hint young people. A TV script for a 30 second spot is like a resume, even an over-enhanced resume. It all needs to fit on one page.

Similarly, a 15 second spot should not include more than three "Cut To's". Too many scenes equals too many reasons to Skip Ad or change the channel.

I'm well aware of how this comes off. So let me just say that I, and my many various art director partners, have stepped in the same piles of shit. Our spots were too wordy. Too complicated. And too labored. It's all part of learning the craft.

It's what you do when clients keep adding messages to the messaging.

The 10 lbs. -- now 11 lbs. -- must fit in the 5 lbs. bag.

I get it.

It's hard to navigate all the various agendas.

It's not easy to say No. And it's even more difficult not to be labeled, "difficult."

Perhaps that's why so many 24 year old staff copywriters become mercenary 44 year old freelance copywriters.



I've been busy this week.

I was busy last week as well.

This might not seem unusual to you but it is to the battalions of freelance writers and art directors who are out there right now complaining about how slow it is. They have no doubt stumbled across my WorkingNotWorking page, realized that I was booked and thought to themselves...

"Damnit, how does that fat 44 year old hack keep getting work?"

Well, I'll tell you.

For one thing and this is not fake modesty, there are better freelance copywriters out there. I could rattle off a few names, Kathy Hepinstall, comes to mind, but I don't want to start getting emails from colleagues.

Suffice to say they're better. They have work that's on the air. They have shiny new case studies in their portfolios. And they're hip to some of the newfangled social media platforms like Pizzle™, JamMonkey™ and FlapWap™.

I stay busy, because I stay busy at staying busy.

In the 12 self-taught years of being a freelancer, I'm not ashamed to say I've become an OK copywriter, but a really good hunter. I've learned how to read the terrain, locate turmoil, exploit opportunity and find which rocks to kick over.

It's a matter of resourcefulness -- a rare commodity in this industry.

Quick aside, not long ago we had presented a campaign that employed a certain type of literary trope. Two (2!) junior assistants were asked to research this classical motif in order to fortify our presentation with the client. While I was waiting for their finely-honed study piece and deep-dive analysis, I went online, dug around and put together my own research-backed treatment. A day later, I was emailed a document from the two (2!) assistants. They had cut and paste the first three paragraphs from a Wiki page. This is what passes for doing your job these days.

If I'm lying, I'm dying.

Is it any wonder why clients laugh when agencies claim to be "true marketing partners" worthy of significantly higher compensation?

In addition to being resourceful, I am obnoxiously vigilant. I have friends who operate a different way.

"I just let the work come to me."

Yeah well, I have two daughters attending expensive out of state colleges, I don't have that luxury. I am always on the hunt for the next gig. It's why you'll find me trolling Linkedin or Facebook. Tweeting and Retweeting. Hopefully in an amusing way, but always in a purposeful one.

Because if I can stay on the radar I can stay busy as a freelancer.

And that beats the hell out any regular staff job. Even if there are free bagels.


Today I started this post with the intention of sharing some new work we had done about 6 months ago. We, and by that I mean a gaggle of freelancers, were brought in to develop a campaign for Subaru in Southeast Asia.

It was typical creative gang bang, pitting teams against each other in the hopes of getting a wide variety of executions. I'm happy to say that in the end, we prevailed and our campaign was selected by the client.

A trip to Singapore. Some exotic, possibly poisonous, sushi. And even perhaps a surreptitious visit to a late night bath house (with permission from my wife of course) were all in the cards.

And then they weren't.
Sadly, we were not retained for the production end of the commercial.

Consequently, the spot didn't turn out exactly the way I had seen it my head. And discretion being the better part of valor, I have decided to go off in a different, though somewhat similar direction.

You see, last year I was brought in for the same type of assignment, for a different type of vehicle -- the Kia Soul.

And once again, one of our ideas prevailed.

And once again, I was absent for the production. Though to be honest a couple of 14 hour days on a soundstage in Pacoima is a lot less enticing than a TransPacific boondoggle replete with sake and the promise of deep tissue Thai Massages.

The directive was to pit the Kia Soul against the Honda Fit and show its superior cargo space.

And using an old school, Lexus-type demonstration spot, that's exactly what we did.




Like I said, I wasn't involved in the crafting of the commercial. And I probably would have made some different copywriting/music choices.

But by and large, it's simple, it's effective and it looks surprisingly the way I pictured it to look when I put the words on the blank sheet of paper.

And there's something satisfying to that.

Especially for a seasoned 44 year old freelancer.


As many of you might recall, last September I published a new book, Round Seventeen &1/2, The Names Have Been Changed to Protect the Inefficient.

Though I did very little in the way of promotion , this collection of short stories skyrocketed to the top of the NY Times Bestseller List, earned lavish literary praise and even convinced Oprah to do one last encore of her nationally televised book club show.

I'm happy to report that the instant fame, adulation and incredible remuneration including the new vacation home in Vail and the canary-yellow Lamborghini, have not changed me one bit. I'm still the cargo-shorts wearing, grumpy 44 year old freelance copywriter determined to steer the Exxon Valdez (the Ad Industry) away from the jagged rocky shore and hull-eating sandbars.

To that end, I am once again answering the siren call of publication.

A longwinded and delusional way of announcing, "I have a new book."

Of course when I say I have a new book it's not really new, new. I mean come on, it took me three years to assemble my last opus. And I've been a little busy over the last six months; writing banner ads for local mattress stores, email blasts for the Daihatsu dealership and late night TV spots for the Culver City Hi-Colonics Clinic.

The "new" book is a hand-selected, artisanally-curated compilation of the best --and I use that word with all the modesty I can muster -- and sharpest rants that you have found here on RoundSeventeen over the course of the past 7 & 1/2 years.

I'm still in the process of sifting through all the material, close to 1500 posts, to find the rants that still resonate. This is not exceedingly difficult because, though the advertising pundits declare our business is changing at space travel speed, not much has changed at all.

The cretinous fixation on technology, shitty creative briefs and myopic agency leadership that plagued our business in 2009 are still zealously decimating our business in 2016.

As far as titles, I am tentatively going with:

The Big Book of Rants,
A Gentlemen's Guide to a Life in Advertising.

This was actually suggested by my wife, who years ago picked me as her lifemate, so I don't have much faith in her decision making.

Since it's still relatively early in the process, a friend of mine suggested I call upon the wisdom of the masses. And pointed me in the direction of a contest run by the British government to crowdsource the new name for their latest research vessel:


Wow, if I could come up something that genius, I might be able to convince Ms. Winfrey to stop calculating the Weight Watchers points in a Taco Bell Cheesalupa and get me back on the show.

So there it is, readers.
An open call for creativity.

Send me your suggestion for the title of my new book. If yours is selected, I'll make sure Oprah puts out an extra seat on the set when we do the national book tour.


"Why is this year different than any other year?"

Asked the Melancholy Son.

Because this year, unlike all the others, my wife and I were not preparing a huge Seder dinner to mark the holiday of Passover.

With the passing of Deb's mom, a year and a half ago, and the departure of both our daughters off to college, we decided to take a friend up on a Seder invite. And sadly, dispensed with the annual arrangement of the fish from a jar, bread from a box and cow liver that had been chopped, seasoned and pureed until it was no longer recognizable as cow liver.

That is until, as if by divine providence, a miracle arrived on our doorstep.

Just as we were heading out, the doorbell rang. Another solicitor trying to strong arm me into putting solar panels on the roof, I thought.

But no. It was Elijah. Seen here standing next to my thoroughly-amused wife.


My former Chiat/Day partner, John Shirley, who had always been given a standing invitation to come for a Seder dinner, picked this year, of all years, to show up at my house.

Baring a name tag, in case the joke was lost on anyone, a bottle of Manisehewitz "wine" and a speech no less.


It was quite the surprise. Had the house been full of half-hearted, atheist Jews, as it usually is on this festive holiday, John's (Elijah) arrival would have been met with a loud roar of laughter. Well deserved laughter.

He even broke out his all-purpose go-to-funeral/wedding/graduation/odd Jewish bondage fetish festival suit.

To celebrate, we unscrewed the cap and poured ourselves a ceremonial glass of "wine." But before we drank it, I whipped out my iPhone and used my new Vivino app. that identifies wine by the label and offers instantaneous reviews -- a must for any ill-informed wine shopper.

Once again, we were surprised. The reviews, perhaps written in the font of sarcasm, were astonishingly good.

"A sweet, not unpleasant floral aroma."

"Definitive notes of blackberry, with a strong finish."

"Lashings of concord and very subtle hints of...oppression."

We tasted the Manischewitz "wine", a bold 2016 blend direct from the vineyards of Canadaiugua, New York and by consensus, decided that had the Lord really wanted to punish the Egyptians, he could have skipped the theatrics of 10 plagues and made them drink this swill.


I had the pleasure of starting my advertising career at Rubin Postaer & Associates.

I learned the business from a very unique vantage point, behind the wheels of a mailroom cart. As such, I had contact with every department of this booming and very successful agency: Traffic, Print Production, Broadcast, Account Services and of course, Creative.

(There was no Planning Department; I don't know how they managed to conduct any business.)

I also picked up on the benign dictatorship of the Creative Director, Larry Postaer.

The art directors and copywriters on the 8th floor loved Larry, even though he was merciless on the work. Killing concepts, round after round after round after round.

Why? Because they knew, and the account people certainly knew, that once "The Work" had Larry's blessing, it would be sold to the client.

Unchanged.
Unrevised.
Untainted by those of lesser minds.

It was a testament to Larry's leadership. A respect for the purity of the creative product. And an unmistakable indication of the rock solid trust the client had in the agency's ability. And worth.

My good fortune continued when, years later, I found myself at Chiat/Day, where Lee Clow commanded the similar powers of persuasion.

Now, maybe that's not the way it was, but that's the way it seemed. Suffice to say, those days are long gone. Loooooong gone.

Like horse-and-buggy, churn-your-own-butter, 15% commission gone.

Which is why I found this recent effort by The Variable , an agency in North Carolina, so amusing.

Amusing for all the wrong reasons.

I'll give them points for production value and the Richard Attenborough-like VO. But one of their YouTube videos, episode 6.7 is all backwards.




It's so backwards it's comical.

Because in today's advertising world, the omnipotent Assistant Account Executive would summon the GCD (seated uncomfortably at the noisy long table) to his or her office with a text or an email.

And the GCD, Group Creative Director, expertly trained in the Deferential Arts,  would immediately drop everything. Because, I think we can all agree, if revisions aren't made toot sweet...

"We're going to lose the account!"

Furthermore, far from being skittish like the hyena, today's young AAE is more like the King of the Jungle. Emboldened with a Powerpoint deck, Big Data and the impenetrable logic of:

"The client said so."

"It has to ship tomorrow."

or

"I can take this to the ECD if you'd like."

In fact, and I'm sorry to say this, the supposed uneven distribution of power suggested by this 15 second video is so misconstrued that in the real world, the mighty AAE's request for revisions from the GCD is likely to be followed by...

"Hey, can you grab me a cup of coffee? Cream and sugar. But not that Hazelnut crap."


Today 4/20/16 is a special day.

Those of you with legitimate medical conditions requiring a California state issued card for the purchase and use of medicinal "herbal" remedies know exactly what I'm talking about. And even though I'm 44 years old, I'm hip to your jive.

But, and many of you probably did not know this, today is also Adolf Hitler's Birthday. The world's number one smiter of Jews would have been 127 years old, you know had he not mistakenly launched Operation Barbarossa and awakened the large Russian Grizzly bear who was sleeping off another night of vodka-infused sweet potatoes.

I take no small amount of pride in my steeped knowledge of Nazis, Aryan culture and the Holocaust.

"I'll take Concentration Camps Beginning with the letter B for 800, Alex."

To celebrate this perverse obsession, I'm going to share some screen grabs with you.

You see I am currently locked in an online chess battle with a gentlemen from der Fatherland. This is not to suggest he is a Nazi. Or is in any way antisemitic. I hope he is not.

But just a few moves into our game my German opponent came at me with a full blitzkrieg of unprovoked attacks.


First, you should know that most online chess games are played in silence. I have rarely chatted with any of my competitors. It's just not done.  More, importantly, I love how he refers to himself in the third person as a "world ranked chess player". For the record he does have about 100 more points than my respectable 1427.

I'm sure somebody has given the Big Mac a rating, but that doesn't make it a "world ranked" burger.

Then, my friend from Munich goes on to accuse me of cheating!



I have no idea what a cheater ticket is. Nor would I know how to cheat at online chess. Also, this chat exchange happened in the very early stages of the game. He had a few pawns on me. That's all. I'm not giving up. Particularly when he is going to grace me with all this comedy gold.


Now he is cursing at me in his mother language. I'm sensing his frustration. And so I reply with a favorite Yiddish expression that my father used on a daily basis, "gyn drew in deyn hut." Or, Go Shit in Your Hat.


We are now in the endgame. And much the way the Soviets surrounded Berlin in May of 1945, the outcome has been decided. But the slog is slow. And I intend to make it even slower.

He will win the chess game but he will do it on my terms. With some purposeful procrastination carefully seasoned with ample taunting and some well-chosen passive/aggressive verbal maneuvers.

Consider it one last personal payment in the reparations package, Heinrich.


Can't get no respect

I want to make an apology.

I don't know who I'm apologizing to, but I want to go on record with my contrition.

Allow me to explain.

I like to think I live by a certain code. I hold others up to a similar set of standards (blog posts # 78, 121, 138, 286, 293, 383, etc., etc.) so it's only natural those standards apply to me. Otherwise, I could be accused of being the world's biggest asshole, a charge I am familiar with.

Part of that code is responding to email, phone calls or any other gestures for my attention.

And so, if I haven't gotten back to you, it isn't because I haven't tried. Maybe it fell through the cracks. Went to my junk folder. Or simply slipped my quickly degenerating mind. It certainly was not meant as a measure of disrespect.

But let's face it.
We love in highly disrespectful times.
And this shit has become endemic.

This is not a thinly-veiled missive towards anyone in particular, this is a double-barreled full blast of rock salt at the entire industry. And humanity in general. Common courtesy has become singularly uncommon.

It takes all of 13 seconds to hit the reply button on an email, write "thank you but we're not interested" and click the mouse to send the minutest measure of collegial respect.

I know, I timed it.
But apparently that's too much.

As I mentioned not too long ago, I've been doing a lot of Smiling and Dialing lately in order to stay ahead of the freelance glut on the market. And I am flabbergasted by the soaring level of apathy and disrespect.

Last week a recruiter was looking for a Creative Director/Freelance Copywriter for a juicy three month gig here in Los Angeles. Naturally, I inquired. Shockingly, I was told I lacked the qualifications for the assignment. With the possible exception of feminine hygiene products or video gaming software, I like to think there's very little this 44 year old copywriter can't handle.

It wasn't the response I expected but at least it was a response. She was dead wrong in her assessment but at least she showed some measure of respect.

I wish that were true of Agencies and clients who demand impossible turnarounds, lower day rates, extended hours and last minute requests to completely re-haul, re-tool and rebrand a Fortune 100 Global Company over the course of a weekend.

Is it too much to ask for a little professional respect?

And how 'bout getting some air conditioning up in this bitch?


I know I said I would refrain from any political posts here on RoundSeventeen, and if you've noticed the incredible spate of recent articles on advertising, by and large I have.

But things are heating up. And occasionally a candidate -- from either party by the way -- will say or do something that demands my immediate attention.

I know a great many of my colleagues are not fond of the Republican candidates. Guess what? Neither am I. A bunch of bombastic blowhards with a penchant for bullying and an unexplainable compulsion to thump the Bible on every issue.

I also know a great many of my colleagues find it hard to swallow the incredible liberties these GOP candidates take with the truth. Not long ago, the media had a field day when the orange-haired One claimed tens of thousands of Muslims in this country were celebrating in the streets on the day of 9/11.

They weren't. And responsible journalists rightly held his feet to the fire.

However, and this is addressed to my left leaning friends as well as the bozos with press passes, where's the outrage regarding Bernie Sander's distortion of the truth?

Just last week, the silver haired Senator claimed that Israel killed 10,000 innocent people in Gaza and showed a blatant disproportionate response to the daily rocket attacks coming from the Strip.

This, we know, is not true. It's not even close to true.

The most anti-Israel groups from the UN put the number of casualties at close to one tenth that number. Moreover, they point out that many of those were a result of Hamas using civilians as human shields. Bernie might have glossed over that while wildly gesturing with his hands or working himself into a lather with his apparent Jewish self-loathing.

Might I also point out, that nobody in Gaza would have died had the Neanderthals of Hamas not launched rocket attacks on another sovereign nation. None. Not one.

Let's examine Bernie's faulty fuzzy logic even further.

Where did this notion of "disproportionate" military response come from? Call me crazy, or a paranoid Jew, but I have only heard it applied to the nation of Israel.

For instance, when ISIS burned a Jordanian soldier alive, in another one of its brutal displays of inhumanity, the Jordanians responded with three days of airstrikes , 56 in total. With the promise of many more.

Similarly, after the savage attacks in Paris, the French government unleashed its fury  on targets in Syria, more than 2000 miles from French territory.

They're not alone. The Russians, the Turks, and the US government have all responded similarly in the past. I don't remember hearing a peep from the frothy Vermont Senator. Not a peep.

Perhaps you'd like to engage in some semantic gymnastics and point out that those were attacks from ISIS. While the rockets were launched by Hamas.

In which case I would respond by saying if you can't see that ISIS is the same as Hamas is the same as Boko Haram is the same as Al Qeada is the same as Al Nusra is the same as the Taliban is the same as Lashkar-e-Taiba is the same as Hezbollah, well then you have not been paying attention.


It's been brought to my attention, by several faithful readers, and I use that term sparingly, that through my daily blogging activity it is possible to gauge my mood and more specifically my work status.

For instance, my uncle, baking in the relentless heat of the Palm Springs sun recently asked if I had been working. Why, I queried? Because, he, as well as a few others, had noted a more fatalistic tone in my writing lately.

I found this quite shocking.

I didn't think it possible for my already fatalistic style to get any more fatalistic. In fact, I would invite you to pick any random blog posting, even those written while I was double and triple booked, and point out any quantitive differences in nihilistic content.

But then again, I'm on this side of the keyboard and you dear reader, are on the other. So my perspective is a bit warped.

And yes, truth be told, it has been slow lately. Slower than I and the bursars at the University of Washington and the University of Colorado would like it. But, if you know me, and clearly from reading beneath the lines, some of you think you do, you know I am a tireless 44 year old Dialer and Smiler.

As a result, assignments are now trickling in. Enough in fact, that I can end this week on a less fatalistic tone and a photo (see above) of a unique house I spotted in Mar Vista recently. A small California bungalow festooned with nothing but teapots.

Lots and lots of teapots.

Here's another shot for your amusement.


That's either my thumb on the left side of the shot.

Or my damn oversized Jew hook nose.

There was a time in advertising --uh-oh, old man on warpath again -- when the goal was to move the merchandise. If we can help the client raise sales figures 3%, 7.1% or 9.4%, we were doing our job. And doing it well.

And barring the hiring of a new Chief Marketing Officer, we could expect to be retained for another torturous year.

Then, someone got it in their head that we needed to "engage" the consumer.

Through the magic of social media we could have ongoing "dialog" with the people buying our enamel-strengthening toothpaste or twice-baked wheat crackers.

If we reached them with enough touchpoints, the thinking goes, we could actually have a long-lasting, meaningful "conversation" with the folks who wipe their asses with our 4-ply quilted toilet paper.

But that was not sufficient.
Soon, we were asked to go "viral".

Write, craft, design and cobble together a long form video -- with $80,000 -- that once uploaded onto a free YouTube channel, will spread like wildfire and threaten to dethrone Justin Bieber or that cello-playing cat.

A tall order.
But not the tallest.

Because now there is rarely a brief that crosses my desk, and when I say desk I mean picnic table set up for the freelancers, or pops up in a pdf via email, when I'm lucky and get to work at home, that does not include the delusional instructive to "create a worldwide movement."

A Movement!

You see it's not enough that we sell more Craftsmen Staple Guns or Toyota Scions or Arby's French Dip Manwiches, now it's our responsibility to turn those converted sales into brand evangelists.

To get them off their duffs and into the streets. Marching with uncontainable enthusiasm and nothing more important to do with their time than to get others onboard and spread the love of their new Hefty Stretchable Trash Bags.

It simply defies all manner of logic and common sense.

It has taken me 20 years and I still can't convince my daughters to make their beds or put the dishes in the dishwasher. But now, and for no apparent reason, you want me to persuade people that your new Parkay Butter is so good and clings to bread so well, they should eat their toast upside down?

And you want me to do it with a 76X128 banner ad?

Got it.

I'll show you where I'm at in 6 hours.


Before I get to today's useless rant, let me just go on record and say I love stock photography. Particularly overstaged, schlocky, poorly lit business-type stock photography.

I love it in the same way I love Russian dating sites. They're so bad, they're good. Mostly because the way these under talented photographers have the models pose is so broad and so overdone it resembles nothing like the real world.

In the real world for instance, if I walked into a conference room and were greeted by these two lanyard-wearing clowns I'd need to summon all my powers of self restraint not to throat punch them. Settle down there, Winkyboys.

But I have digressed.

Today's topic: Recruiters.

Why the fuck are there so many recruiters?

Have you been on linkedin.com lately?

Sandwiched between newsfeed items asking me to name a city without the letter A -- how about Asshattery, Arkansas, or to solve some inane mathematical equation -- again I'm going with Asshattery, Arkansas, there's a new announcement from someone entering the new lucrative field of recruiting.

I'm not here to disparage recruiters.

I've been known to bite the hand that feeds me but I'm not into full self-destruction mode (yet) and I still get the occasional booking through friends who are recruiters -- you long-timers in Los Angeles know who you are. And that I love you dearly.

I'm simply questioning the sudden explosion. It's like the 17 year cycle of the cicada. Only now the woodworks are clogged up with recruiters. It seems like everyone and their pilates instructor is in the game.

Moment of serendipity, and this is the absolute truth, as I am writing this and planning the next paragraph in my head, I received an email informing me of my newest linked connection -- a recruiter.

All of which begs the question.

Why are organizations having such a difficult time getting people to come through the front door? And more importantly, what specific jobs are these communication pros recruiting for? Is there a boom coming to the marketing world that will propel the industry forward and bring about a new golden age of advertising?

Oh... silly me, I just answered my question. Planners.

An agency can never have enough Planners.

Wink.

Epic, schmepic.

"I'm going to make him a movie, he cannot sit through."

That would be the logline on the recently released Godfather, The Epic. This 7 &1/2 hour long movie -- the Shoah of gangster cinema -- is a re-edited compilation of both the Godfather and Godfather, Part II.

Instead of the flashbacks and lyrical deconstruction of time in the originals, it serves up a pedantic chronologically correct tracking of Vito Corleone as he escapes from Sicily, makes his way to America, learns how to shake down street peddlers, raises a family and then passes the torch onto Michael Corleone, who dutifully follows in his father's noble blood-stained footsteps.

I've plowed through 5 hours of this gargantuan mess and will probably skip the remaining 150 minutes.

Not because I already know what happens. And I do.

Or that I find Lee Strassberg's portrayal of "That Jew" Hyman Roth to be one dimensional, leaving a bad taste in my mouth like his wife's tuna fish sandwich.

Or even because I've got something else cued up on the DVR that requires my immediate attention -- I'm caught up on Better Call Saul and dread the thought of the series going on hiatus.

It's just that I love Godfather movies so much. And now upon rewatching them in this format I'm finding plot holes and directorial mistakes that frankly tarnish my admiration for this masterpiece.

For instance, in this new version, which features unseen, unused footage, Michael gets his revenge on Fabrizio, the bodyguard who blew up the car Apolonia was driving in the town of Corleone. But the staging, effects and corny over-acting are dreadful at best. I can see why this hundred feet of celluloid was originally left on the cutting room floor.

And Al Neri, Michael's stone-faced, right-hand man who never said a word in the original cuts, now makes the unfortunate mistake of taking on a speaking role.

Finally, there's the assassination attempt on Michael Corleone at his Lake Tahoe home.

The two killers are found in a swampy ditch, their bodies riddled with bullets, despite Michael's command to catch them alive. We are led to suspect they were cut down after the failed attempt by someone on the inside. Was it Freddo? Was it someone from Pantangeli's family?

It's a question that never is answered.

Maybe it is answered in the last twenty minutes of this cinematic goulash that looks less like the work of Francis Ford Coppola and more like the half-hearted artistry of a disgruntled Pizza Hut employee.

But I'll never know, cause I can't sit through this thing.

Capiche?


I don't know about you, but I hate my yearly trips to the accountant's office.

It has nothing to do with my accountant -- the rockstar CPA to the entire southern California ad community -- who is one of the nicest men on the planet. He also knows more about what's going on in the business than I do.

Who is going where.
What accounts are up for review.
And which sloppy CD will drink the most rose wine at Cannes this year.

I always leave his office with a good lead on my next freelance gig. But sitting in that chair as he enters the numbers from my various 1099's, W2's, K1's and 850TRP/a-3's always gives me the Willies.

It's not unlike that uneasy feeling you get when you're waiting for the dentist to interpret the X-rays.

"You're either gonna need a very painful Crown."

Ouch.

"Or an even more painful Root Canal."

This year I was particularly fearful, as 2015 was quite busy. This, despite the self-imposed three month sabbatical I took in order to complete publishing my book . Now, despite's Lee Clow's ringing endorsement, only sadly sagging in sales behind 1, 852,347 other books available on Amazon.




The year was also surprisingly fruitful despite my advancing age. You simply don't find many 44 year old freelance copywriters roaming the halls of today's ad agencies.

It's not as if with every rotation of the earth around the sun I have lost my ability to string words together and write a compelling TV spot or snappy headline. I can. Nor does my ever enlarging prostate inhibit my ability to litter the table with ideas for Frivolous Fuckwadian Digital Knick Knacks™. I have.

It's just that the youngsters who revel in their all night work sessions and their new inky sleeves are not accustomed to, nor appreciate, dinosaurs who dare question their post-it note strategies and their cringeworthy pedestrian insights.

Nevertheless the numbers added up. And with it, the growing feeling that I was going to owe Uncle Sam a shitload of money.

But, my accountant, the man who puts the deductible in my every waking moment, sprung some good news on me. It seems, after totaling up the laundry list of "work-related" expenses, including everything from my orthotic insoles to my electric ear hair remover, I've got some refund checks coming my way.

From the state. And from the Feds.

So this trip my dentist...er, CPA, wasn't so bad after all.

"Yeah, I looked at the X-ray again. Turns out you don't need a Crown or a Root Canal. It was just a piece of lamb schwarma wedged between your molars."

A monkey can do it.

Unlike some of my more demure colleagues, I have no problem questioning the wisdom of a strategic brief, or of its author, the Planner. And why should I? After all, they question the validity of our work on a weekly basis.

Did I say weekly? I meant daily.

Because God knows creatives, even seasoned 44 year olds like myself, don't have the wherewithal to move forward and develop an advertising campaign without the daily watchful guidance and skilled expertise of a professional Planner with degrees in...what is it they have degrees in?

Point being, I've heard some awful stupid stuff from the Planning department.

Years ago, we were pitching Sparkletts water and to the credit of the crack research team and the careful analysis of all the big data, the Planner had successfully reduced the strategy down to its barest minimum. Not one page mind you, one word.

BLUE.

That's right, we, the cynics and jaded artisans in the creative department, were told to vigorously pursue and make hay out of the word BLUE.

Years later, I was working at a different agency, and I use the word different hesitantly because they're different in name only, and I balked at a different brief. I don't even remember what it was for, nor is that important. The sheer fact that I dared to question the logic of the brief brought about a completely unexpected response...

"Well Rich, I'll grant you that it's not the most insightful brief in the world, but they all can't be Got Milk? you know. It just doesn't work that way."

There's a new benchmark for underachievement. They all can't be Apple's 1984 or VW's Darth Vader, I thought, but that doesn't mean we don't try.

Recently I sat in on a meeting and heard the latest nugget for my collection. And this one my fellow copywriters can savor for years. A planner was heard to say...

"If we get this brief just right, the spots will literally write themselves."

Good thing this happened early in the morning and I was on an empty stomach, because had it transpired a few hours later in the day, I would have seen my lunch for the second time.

Spots do not write themselves. Nor do they rewrite themselves after the brief has changed. Nor do they rewrite the rewrites because someone in upper management doesn't like dogs. Or umbrellas. Or ketchup. Or seven. Or tweed. Or convertibles. Or love seats. Or oranges.

If it ever gets to a point where spots do write themselves, I'll be out of a job.

Of course, I could go into Planning, how hard can that be?


One of the things I enjoy about being a freelance copywriter is the variety of assignments. This is especially important to someone like me who is afflicted with ADD, Additional Dollars Desired.

One week, I can be writing about batter-dipped, deep-fried fish sticks and the next I can be doing a white paper on the wisdom of diversified asset management. Last week, I was thrust back into the world of recruitment advertising.

Not exactly the same Help Wanted ads that launched my career at the humble Encino offices of Bernard Hodes Advertising, but not far from it either.

Permit me to take a nostalgic walk into the past to these not-so gloried days.

The mailroom at an ad agency is no place to be. Especially if you have just graduated from college and your parents are hocking you about giving up on this fakakta dream about being a writer. So when I saw that a recruitment ad agency was looking for a junior writer I sprung into action.

I knew there would be a hundred other applicants for the job. So I told the Creative Director I would do anything for the gig. She gave me a spec assignment and asked what I would do get Integrated Systems Engineers in the door at Northrop Aircraft, one of their clients.

I had no idea what Integrated Systems were. Or who Northrop Aircraft was. Or even what a Help Wanted ad for an Engineer looked like. This was pre-Internet, so I spent half the weekend at the library. And the other half writing and coming up spec ads.

"Tomorrow's challenges, today. At Northrop."

"Join us at our environment for innovation."

"We're engineered for Engineers."

Nothing inspirational. In fact it was all crap.

But the Creative Director was impressed that I had it on her desk at 8:30 Monday morning before anyone had even arrived at the office. I beat out a hundred, maybe two hundred, other applicants, not because I was better but because I wanted it more.

Little did I know I'd spend the next two years of my life cranking out one shit recruitment ad after another. Sometimes twenty a day. Dreadful long copy ads about opportunity, imagination, competitive salaries and comprehensive dental care.

And now some .....(cough) years later, I am writing recruitment ads again.

As a friend of mine put it, I have come full circle. I can, with a clear conscience and boatload of debt, go into the light.

Upon completion of my book, my friend Robert, and fellow author, said, "Congratulations, you are now the owner of the world's most expensive business card."

If I torture myself and look at the cumulative sales chart, I'd have to agree.

Additionally, if I'm being honest with myself, that also makes this long running (7 years plus) blog, the world's most long-winded self-promo.

But in the advertising world, if you're not promoting yourself no one is paying you a day rate to promote their dog food, their anti-perspirants, their SUV's or their inedible fast food offerings.

That's just the way it is.

Particularly now when the market is seeing a flood of new freelancers, who, tired of the sweatshop conditions imposed upon them by their new media overlords, have now decided to go it on their own.  Sadly, that can mean only one thing for you 13 regular readers of this blog -- more self promotion.

Those of you who know me are familiar with my shaky Photoshop skills. I can cut and paste a picture of my book and put it in the hands of Donald Trump or Beyonce, but that's about the extent of it.

So when I spring this on you, you must know there is no way in the world I could have manufactured or faked it.

But I do know the magic of Command Shift 4 -- the Screen Grab.

With that, I invite you to read this totally unsolicited linked.com exchange I had about a month ago with a recruiter in the business:


There you have it. My new self promo.

Last Sunday was Easter.

I know from early brainwashing...er, religious school training, that Passover is right on its heels. I'm a little hazy on how the two holidays were related.

I think Jesus, a rabbi, and his disciples were having a Last Supper, which was actually a Passover Seder.

In remembrance of the 400 years of Hebrew bondage under the iron-fist of the Egyptians, Jesus ate matzo, bitter herbs and brisket. When the boredom of the Hagaddah and the overcooked meat didn't kill him, the Romans crucified him the very next morning.

Then, to sooth all the mourning people, God sent a large rabbit with an even larger wicker basket throughout the land, distributing multicolored marshmallow treats and foil-wrapped chocolate eggs.

I may be wrong on that.

In the past I've taken many potshots at the Abrahamic religions. Particularly my own. You may remember last year's recipe for home-made matzo, including the gentile blood of neighborhood children.

And, though I've been mute recently (so that no one will mistakenly take me for a Trump supporter), I've slung a few pointed arrows at the silliness found in the Holy Quran.

So it seems only fitting that I take a good hard look at Easter. Of course this is where it gets difficult. Because who can argue and contest the logic of the Resurrection story.

A political opponent of the Roman regime is executed. His lifeless body is brought to a cave. His followers enter the cave 3 days later, because who wouldn't want to check up on a corpse. And he is gone. So they conclude he is the One.

Not a story I subscribe to, but hey anything's possible.

Including the likelihood that very small children would not throw a tantrum when seated next to a 6 foot man dressed as a deranged Bunny from a Wes Craven movie.

Take it away, Internet.









I had never heard of an Easter Penguin. Must be something new. Maybe it's a Lutheran thing.

Steam 'em and gleam 'em.


I've often said, "it's harder to do bad advertising than it is to do good." And I don't know if you've noticed lately, but there is a lot of bad advertising out there. I've been watching the NCAA basketball tournament, so I know.

There's a couple who are so averse to talking about their retirement plans they go to extreme lengths not to talk about it. The wife purposely messes up the windows. The man busts the gutter and throws his car keys over the fence. Oh the hilarity.

There's another cloying version of the McPick Two jingle.

And there's car porn. Lots of car porn. On beautiful, dimly lit urban streets. On windy mountain roads. And streaking across desert flats. All accompanied with the worst voiceover copy that seems to have been written by a brain dead committee of twelve.

I don't have anything on the air, but I'm just as guilty for polluting corporate boardrooms as anyone else. It's how I put food on my family's diner table.

Decks and Checks.

What makes bad advertising so difficult is that it starts out bad --mostly because the client has asked for something bad -- trying to cram 10 lbs. of horseshit into a bag clearly designed for only 5lbs. of horseshit.

And then it only gets worse. There are meetings. Revisions. More meetings. More horseshit.

And then, when the turd has been finely polished, it is offered up before the Media Department, the new overlords of the advertising kingdom.

"These are great, but we only bought 15 second spots. Can you make these work in 15 seconds?"

Of course we can. Because we are professionals. We see problems as opportunities. And we relish a good challenge.

I'd like a different kind of challenge.

For once I'd like a Creative Director to look over the work, turn to me and say, "Can you push it even further? Can you give it more edge? Can you increase the tension and make this thing -- could be a spot, a print piece, or even a digital idea -- more impactful? Can you do that Mr. Creative Guy?"

But, as a fellow trench-dweller, you know that's not what happens. The changes we're asked to make are of a more mundane nature.

The client doesn't like the word, tangy. Or, plus. Or, affordable.

We don't have the budget for an elephant, can it be a very large dog?

Can you say the name of the product in the first 6 seconds?

When I started writing this blog, I jokingly named it RoundSeventeen as a hat tip to the ridiculous number of changes we need to make in order to get a Skip Ad on the air or on a YouTube preroll. Seventeen seemed excessive. And properly connoted the dysfunctional nature of the creative process.

That was way back in 2009.

Today, a piece of work can go through 17 rounds of revisions before I take my noontime swim.


Today's post comes to you complements of new technology and the advertising industry's inclination to replace insight with gadgetry, representational thinking and the exuberant rectal abuse of the English language.


Woo-Hoo!

Yeeeeeessssssss!!!

You might be wondering what all the excitement is about. Or, you might have clicked away to Adweek to read another one of their crack journalistic pieces: 27 under 27, The 27 Media Associates Under 27 Years Old Who Took Home the Most Logo-Emblazoned Oven Mitts.

But if you have stuck around, I finally figured it out. You know it. The Exit Plan. The seismic career move that will see me through to retirement and keep me out of a dirty nursing home.

Every copywriter and art director I know is looking for the Exit Plan.

Some will open up a frozen yogurt shop. Some will turn to real estate and sink their money into useless plots of desert land hoping the government will want to lease it for a solar panel farm -- that's not gonna happen. And some seasoned veterans will find relief in the chaotic up and down world of freelancing.

They will discover, as I have, that uncomfortable feeling walking into a new shop and the staffers glaring, contesting their very presence...

"Why is Grandpa in the office?"

Well, those days are numbered for this 44 year old.

You see, I'm transitioning out of copywriting into the new lucrative world of Human Resources. I'm going to create my own job title and offer my services to ad agencies throughout the land as their new Chief Retainment Officer.

You might read this as some harebrained idea from a guy with no head for business. Or simply another comedic vehicle to pad the blog on a slow news day, but I'm completely serious.

Agencies spend a shitload of money trying to attract talent. With the recent Gustavo Martinez debacle at JWT, they're sure to spend even more recruiting women and minorities.  Though not "Fucking Jews", there are enough of those.

It's a sizable investment.

But they might as well be tossing that money in the toilet. Or the Rich Siegel College Tuition Relief Fund.

Because, let's face it, after 2 years of servitude or the 78th unpaid weekend of pad thai noodles and deck-building, whichever comes first, that "talent" bolts. With it goes all the money the agency has sunk into them: training, relocation fees, and the priceless ability to make sense out of the strategic briefs coming out of the Planning department.

Agencies need to find a way to retain what they have worked so hard to recruit.

That's where I come in. Because, perhaps better than most, I know why they are leaving.

As the Chief Retainment Officer, I'm going to fix all that. I'll be the bull in the china shop. Re-aligning briefs. Canceling meetings. And telling clients, "No."

I'll reverse the flow. Instead of creatives leaving to go elsewhere, they'll be lining up at the door, camped out in the parking lot, just hoping to get in.

I'll help create the kind of environment that is conducive to great work and pays untold dividends in employee loyalty. My exorbitant salary will be redeemed within months. And agency brass will be kicking themselves wondering why they hadn't contacted me earlier, before their A-list Norwegian rockstar creatives packed their bags and herring mason jars and went back to Oslo.

And if all doesn't go according to plan, I can always crank out some banner ads.


Yesterday we heard the unexpected and incredibly sad news of Garry Shandling's passing. I had planned to write about Garry next week, but while the memories are rushing around my head thought it better to just get my thoughts written down.

Two quick anecdotes about this talented man who brought us so much laughter.

Years ago, I was a bartender at a local night club in Santa Monica. Garry, still in the early stages of his career, would sometimes play there and open for the band, Billy & The Beaters. Not long after he had played the gig he was sitting at the back of an airplane, bound from Newark to Los Angeles.

In fact, he was sitting right next to me.

I introduced myself and we started exchanging small talk. I told him how I recognized him from the club and we chatted about our mutual interests. I might've made an important career connection on that flight, but it was not to be.

Before we even took off we both noticed this extremely attractive woman walking, almost in slow motion, down the aisle. She took a seat three rows up from us. When Garry noticed the aisle seat still vacated (this was a long time ago) he cleared his throat, turned to me and said...

"Watch this."

With that he got up. Introduced himself to the woman. Smiled. Looked back at me. Winked. And for the next 5 hours plied her with a winning combination of liquor and neurotic Jewish charm. He "landed" long before the plane did.

The more consequential anecdote happened a good 20 years later.

Rob Schwartz (CEO of the TBWA Chiat/Day NY) and I were spending every waking hour writing spec TV scripts. We knocked out a dozen of these, from SEINFELD to FRASIER to MARRIED WITH CHILDREN. Most were not very good, but through the sheer act of writing them, they were getting better.

One day Rob had a brilliant idea. I hate when other people have better ideas than mine.

"Let's write a spec script for the final episode of the Larry Sanders show. Larry's special guest will be Gary Shandling."

Holy shit, I thought. That is cool.

And though to this day I wish I had been the one who thought of it, I knew we had to write that script. I also knew it would be challenging. It was. But it was the challenging nature of it that made the script sing. It wasn't formulaic, like other sitcoms. And it allowed us to take numerous stinging potshots at the entertainment industry. And writers love to bite the hand that feeds them.

I've searched high and low in my garage but could not find the script.

Though I do remember one pivotal scene involving Larry and Garry standing next to each other in the Men's Room. With dicks in hand, both Larry and Garry, perhaps not surprisingly, get the worst case of Shy Bladder.

Neither can squeeze out a drop. Their stilted dialogue and cringeworthy silence, is interrupted by each man helplessly pulling on the flushing mechanism in order to get their business flowing.

Rob and I could hardly contain ourselves as we chortled and guffawed our way through the script.

And we weren't the only ones. Our worthless agent somehow got the work in the hands of Bill Oakley and Josh Weinstein, the Executives Producers who ran The Simpsons for many years. They loved the adventures of Larry & Garry and paid us good money to write an episode of their new show, Mission Hill .

Actually, it was shit money. And we were holed up in a room with stinky, dirty Harvard Lampoon writers who smelled of day old onion rings from Burger King. And the network notes, the reams of network notes, were stupid --Hollywood's equivalent of "make the logo bigger."

Rob and I made a beeline for the exit door. In one short week, we learned the world of making television is absurd, surreal, witless and without any regard for artistic integrity.

In other words, everything Larry Sanders said it would be.

Rest in peace.


It has taken me a while but I have finally tracked down a piece of work from a long time ago.

You may view this posting as a vain attempt to relive the glory of the past, but I assure you, it's not. (OK, maybe a little)

In addition to the infamous Yellow billboards we did for ABC, we also cranked out close to a hundred TV commercials in 1998. Nobody saw them, simply because they were broadcast exclusively on ABC -- a network with quite possibly the shittiest shows ever put out over the airwaves.

For this particular assignment, the client asked us to "package" their three crappy crime shows running back-to-back-to-back on Saturday Nights.

We, meaning John Shirley, Cody Spinadel, Mikey Collado and I, put our heads together and came up with the notion of Carl & Leon, two career criminals who would host the Saturday Night Specials about felons, cops and our nation's crack judicial system.

From the comfort of their community viewing room in D Wing, perpetual inmates Carl and Leon would pimp the episodes and show up during interstitials to give us running commentary on the unfolding drama.

Something akin to Mystery Science Theater 3000.

That was the ambitious plan.

Despite the success of the Yellow branding campaign, ABC never bought in all the way. Nor did they take us up on the many suggestions we had for loosening the way a broadcast network goes about their business. Including our proposal to change the tagline every day. Run odd 6, 9 or 17 second commercials. And breaking the 4th wall with spontaneous on set interviews or golf cart tours around the lot. Or the commissary, which had many colorful nicknames and clever allusions to ptomaine.

Nevertheless, we did knock out a dozen of these Carl & Leon spots, which I won't bore you with.

This one is my favorite. If memory serves me correct, it started with a premise that young Mr. Collado wrote and then evolved through a process of improvisation -- which we were free to do because the client never showed up at any of our shoots. That's how good we had it.





Special thanks go out to Jeff Gorman, a Chiat/Day legend who directed the Carl & Leon spots and who was gracious enough to rummage through his 3/4 inch videotapes to fish these out of storage.

It costs me two meaty lunches to get my grubby hands on these spots, but in my mind, it was worth it.


Two days ago, I detailed the vigorous defense of my Kim Jung Un  collection of captioned photos and the ridiculous charge that I was somehow guilty of being a racist.

I'm stepping back in the pool, perhaps unwisely, with a politically incorrect review of odd Russian Wedding Photos.

I've never been accused of playing it safe or muzzled myself in situations that clearly called for muzzling, so why afters 44 years on this Earth would I stop now?

Besides, while 50% of my DNA originated in the cold, wet highlands of Scotland, the other 50% is derived from the muddy and bloody shtetls of Mother Russia, where my ancestors were regularly robbed of their lunch money and always picked last for the village soccer team.

I've poked fun of Russian dating sites before so it only seemed natural to follow those amorous adventures to their natural matrimonial conclusions.

Behold...


This young groom may be losing his hair, but what he lacks in follicle growth will more than be made up for in some amorous romping around. I think it's clear to see Mrs. Chrome Dome-ski is going to rock his world. You know, after they leave the reception at the art museum. BTW, you curators at the Louvre, I'll bet you don't have a collection of paintings of angry elephants toting watermelons. I'll bet you wish you did.



Americans aren't the only ones with a misguided sense of patriotism and an odd jingoistic streak. "Let's get a picture of you two lovebirds in front of the Kremlin, our national treasure. Scoot over closer to the fence so we can also get the bride's father in the picture."




Marriage isn't always the blissful journey. It will have its ups and downs. Its good times and its bad times. Nothing will make that journey smoother, or even more bearable, than a good sense of humor. That, and a photo of the two of you with your hands on the ass of an oversized plastic cow.



I thought I was getting good with the photoshop skills. I was starting to master the Lasso tool, the mask and even that blurring thing-a-majig. But clearly, I've got a long way to go. Note the opening in the sky and how the bride, nestled in the obscenely large hands of the groom, is blessed with the light of Jesus. Do Russians call him Jesus?



"Ok, Igor and Igar, smile for the camera. Come on, big smile."

"We are smiling."


It's Tuesday morning where you are, but it's still Saturday morning -- when I write all four of my weekly blogs -- where I am.

And today, I'm quite adamant about playing with the time/space continuum, as it is March 19. My oldest daughter's birthday.

It's hard to believe that she is no longer a teenager and has all but notched two years under her belt at the University of Washington (Go Huskies, so at least I feel I'm getting my money's worth.)

It seems like just yesterday, my wife and I were staring at the curious puddle of amniotic fluid on the kitchen floor and rushing off to St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica.

I'll never forget the searing pain of our first childbirth.

Labor dragged on for close to 38 hours. And I was forced to sleep in a cheap Ikea chair with poor padding and wooden armrests. While my wife, hooked up to a soothing epidural, enjoyed round-the-clock care and a team of obstetric nurses who catered to her every whim.

"Strawberries? No problem. Would you like a bowl or a cup?"

I still get shivers when I think of the scarring discomfort I endured on that March 19th evening so many years ago.

As you might imagine, I had thousands of photos to choose from to lead off today's post. I selected the one above for obvious reasons. It captures my daughter's radiant smile. And you can almost hear her laughing. Not unlike all proud fathers, I am a sucker for her contagious laughter and sometimes wonder if she is using it as a tool to manipulate me.

You need a new iPhone?

You need a new computer?

You need some money for a weekend trip to Vancouver?

Check.
Check.
And check.

Fortunately, as some of you know firsthand, I am a man of modest needs. I do my own manscaping. Though of considerable girth, I eat like a bird. And as my 10 year old dungarees will attest, I am no slave to fashion. In fact, the beat-up Havana Joe's Leather Chukka boots you see on my daughter's feet could be the most expensive item in my wardrobe.

And on that point, as long as my daughter does NOT follow in her father's footsteps and end up in advertising, she can have anything she damn well pleases.

I know you won't be reading this Rachel, but Happy Birthday.

Some of my best restaurants are Chinese

Last week I received an email from out of the ether.

Keep in mind that because I self publish on a regular basis and I amuse myself (and hopefully others) with captioned photos of Kim Jung Un , the plump prince of the DPRK, hearing from strangers on the great wide world interwebs is not all that unusual.

99.9% of these surprise emails are of the complimentary nature.

But, this one email caught me off guard. It came from an Asian Filmmaker in NYC who was so offended by my regular ribbing of Kim Jung Un, he felt the need to tell me. AND, more importantly, to publish his indignation quite publicly on Linkedin.com for all the world to see.

Dear Rich Siegel: I understand that a fat Asian despot with a bowl haircut makes an easy target but you've been making jokes about Kim Jong Un on a weekly basis for as long as I've come in contact with your Linkedin posts for about two years now. I find them unoriginal, lazy, not particularly funny, often racially tinged, and offensive. This is one of the reasons why I've removed you as one of my connections. I don't believe such jokes have a place on social media in this day and age. Before removing myself from exposure to any more of your posts, I thought it important to voice my opinion.

I responded in a way that acknowledged his complaint but also attempted to defuse the situation in a humorous way.

Me: Geez, if we can't make fun of self-important, overeating, repressive boy-kings who starve their countrymen and slaughter political opponents, who can we make fun of? I'm sorry you find the work, "unoriginal, lazy, not particularly funny, often racially tinged and offensive." In retrospect, some could have even funnier. But you're wrong. You're dead wrong. I have not been posting these captioned photos for 2 years. It's actually been 3.

But he would have none of that, insisting that I was guilty of being a racist and repeating as well as amplifying stereotypes.

Him: Rich, your jokes are not about criticizing Kim Jong Un and North Korea's horrific treatment of its people. They are about eating raccoon meat and micro-penises. I'm sorry that you can't see that you're simply propagating offensive racial stereotypes.

Knowing I had not done any of that and had made a conscious effort to steer clear of even the remote possibility of coming off as racially insensitive, I replied:

Me: You keep leveling these charges of racially tinged humor, but I defy you to find one among the 300 plus photos. I may be guilty of overplaying the fat jokes, but as an overweight guy I'm calling executive privilege on that. It's light political humor. If you don't like it, ignore it. Or better yet, since you're in the creative field, grow a thicker skin.

Again, he pushed on.

Him: Rich, I've already made references to racially offensive words used above and I'm not going to repeat them. And it's not just the words you use but the juxtaposition of images and words that result in a racial caricaturization of of Kim, not as a tyrant, but as an Asian.

At this point, my long dormant desire to be a lawyer kicked in and I brought out the light tactical passive/aggressive armaments.

Me: Allow me to be specific and repeat the phrases you quoted. Raccoons are not indigenous to the Korean Peninsula, hence the reference could not possibly reinforce any stereotype and was simply used to point out the scarcity of food in North Korea. Micro-penis was in reference to Hitler and his recently revealed deformity. It was not some veiled insult about Asians. If you took offense to this, perhaps you are projecting your own personal matters, in which case you have my greatest sympathy.

He now realizes he has opened up a can of rhetorical whup ass.

Him: I see we have devolved to personal attacks and Trumpisms. If you don't see it, then you don't see it. Good luck to you.

Trumpisms? Really?

Me: There was no devolving. You started the correspondence by calling me a racist. Lazy. And worse yet, unfunny. I asked for proof, you provided none. Moreover, I never made any personal attacks. I empathetically raised the possibility that you had been shortchanged in the manhood department. I hope that is not the case. If however you wish to cease the banter and witty repartee, I will gladly accept your concession. Otherwise, I'll put on a fresh pot of coffee and we can go keyboard-to-keyboard.

And this is where it ended. Sadly. He stopped the correspondence and blocked me from the thread. In essence, picking up his toys and going home. Just as I was getting warmed up.

I don't take the charge of being a called racist lightly. In the three years that I've been posting the Kim Jung Un photos, I have not heard from one of my many Asians friends (sorry for that tired trope) about stepping over a line.

If you know me at all, and clearly this filmmaker from NYC does not, you've seen me use this platform to regularly champion better treatment for labor, equal rights for gay people and justice for African Americans. You know, when I'm not making fun of Jews. But I get a pass on that as well.

So, this anonymous filmmaker from New York got offended. Big deal.

Know what I find offensive? Political correctness. The tendency to take life too seriously. And the notion that I should refrain from poking fun at a two-bit, fatty-fat, tinpot dictator simply because he is of a different ethnicity.

He's offended. I'm offended.

I guess we're even.

I've mentioned this before but I am surrounded by women. My wife has three sisters. I have two daughters. And even my dog lacks a scrotal sac. I am officially the Mayor of Estrogenville.

Which is why it brought me great joy to see the seeds of change taking place around the world. Even in the cloistered Boy's Club we know as ad agencies.

There was a major bombshell dropped at one of my former employers, JWT, where the chief communications officer laid down some serious charges at the current chief executive officer. If these allegations prove to be true, the house that J. Walter built will be in need of some major remodelling.

Another former employer, TBWA Chiat/Day released a long form video documenting many of the obstacles women face in the workplace. They even held a well-attended conference in South Africa to shine a glaring light on the issues.

And there isn't a day that goes by that I don't witness the 3% 'ers and their ongoing efforts to recruit women into the field and smooth the way to top leadership positions.

Encouraging, right?

It is, except when you stop and consider how far we have to go.

In late night edit sessions or pauses between deadly focus groups or even wedged in the middle seats of Coach flights to Boise, I've heard the whispers, the rumors and the disgusting rumblings my female colleagues have had to endure.

None starker than the tale told to me about a dozen years ago, by a whip-smart account manager (and you know I don't throw that term around lightly) who recounted a late night big brass meeting with the client.

She and a feckless, high ranking agency executive (who shall remain nameless because anonymity is important) stumbled into a stately conference room populated with nothing but jowly white guys. At which point, perhaps still under the influence of a lunchtime cocktail -- or five -- this incredibly-compensated captain of industry leaned over to her and said...

"You know, if this were any other setting, you'd be expected to get up on the table and take your clothes off."

A broken moral compass? No, that's what passes for leadership and integrity these days.

Like I said, we have a long way to go.


I miss football.

One of the things I enjoy most about NFL football is watching the coach make adjustments. A hard charging defense can be countered with a screen or a draw. Or a team can opt to spread the field. Go up tempo.

It's all designed to get the offense in a rhythm. Because only when the offense is in rhythm, can the team advance the ball, move down the field and put points up on the scoreboard. It's about flow. And timing. And having the patience to get in a groove.

This is not cold fusion science. It's easily understood, by a four year old or even a 300 lbs. no-neck offensive lineman from Iowa with a bachelor's degree in Bench Press.

It is however an enigma to the folks calling the shots at ad agencies. Who have all but robbed a creative team's hope of gathering any rhythm. Those of you who wield a pen or a wacom board know exactly where I'm going with this.

A brief is handed to off to a gaggle of copywriters and art directors. No sooner do the creatives drag their asses from the conference room, grab a cup of coffee and return to their assigned 4 square feet at the SuperDesk™, does an electronic meeting notice arrive.

The Junior Creative Director would like to check in with the teams, 23 hours from now.

23 Hours!

The ink on the fuzzy-thinking brief is barely dry.

Fast forward to the next day, when the 'work' is shown. Killed. And followed up by...

"I don't know guys, I'm not seeing any Cannes Gold here."-- Junior Creative Director

An hour later, there's an email from the client (an assistant at that) who has decided to take some initiative. Monday's brief about automotive luxury -- the one that took 6 weeks to prepare-- has magically morphed into Tuesday's brief about performance. This is quickly complemented with another meeting notification about another check in, 22 hours from now.

As expected, Cannes Gold is conspicuously absent. As are any hopes of establishing a rhythm. Because The CMO has changed his vacation plans to Aruba and is now leaving a week earlier than previously scheduled.

The vice is tightened, again and again.

The hastily-prepared performance "strategy" has been changed to fuel efficiency.

And luxury.

And more performance.

The client isn't sure about TV and thinks social media is the way to go.

"Here's $80,000. Make sure it goes viral."

And tomorrow's check in has been re-scheduled for 8 PM.

Tonight.

Maybe what I miss most about NFL football is the opportunity to level someone with a stiff, bony forearm to the soft, unprotected section of the throat.


Not surprising since the guy I asked to snap the photo was in the middle of devouring a Signature Copper Top Tri Tip DeluXXXe, the finest, juiciest, BBQ-iest tri-tip sandwich found north of Lago Salinas Grandes deep in the heart of Argentina.

"Yeah sure buddy, I'll put down this orgasmic experience just to produce a cheap memory of you and your spouse standing in front of a hyperbolic roadway restaurant sign. Good thing we waited til the end of the day when the light is WRONG. No. Really. You're welcome."

At least I have one memento from last week's midlife, midweek, Mammoth getaway.

As you might have guessed with the stunning regularity of R17 posts, I am a terrible creature of habit. And my rigid sense of discipline often gets the best of me, leaving me unable to break a routine or take on any sense of spontaneity.

I'm working to change that.

And so, much to the delight of my wife, I shockingly booked a 1 bedroom condo in the heart of Mammoth Village. This is notable on two counts. First, the aforementioned taking of the initiative. Secondly, perhaps even more shocking, I sprung for convenience and "luxury" of a larger-than-usual suite in a more expensive-than-usual accommodation less than 100 yards from the Gondola lift.

Why?
Because I'm 44 years old damnit.

And because I have to eat many, many big bowls of smelly stupid corporate marketing bullshit to make a living, so I deserve a break once in a while.

I'm happy to report the vacation gods came through. Finally.

After last summer's seaweed beach fiasco in Tulum , I thought I'd never get a break. But two days prior to our road trip up Route 395, the mountain received more than 5 feet of new snow. Upon our arrival in Mammoth Lakes, still my favorite ski resort because it is noticeably absent all the nouveau riche ski resort pretentious posing, the precipitation ended.

In fact, we were treated to a rare consecutive streak of 3 picture-perfect Bluebird days.

I know you must be thinking, how does a fat, old 44 year old Jew even manage to get up on skis?

(keep your eye on the right and ignore the self-criticism at the end.)

Pinch Me.

Last week I had one of those mystical media moments.

You know the ones. You read a headline on an article. You're sucked in by its intriguing content. You comb through the entire piece, thinking "this is too good to be true'. So you check the identity of the publisher. See that's it's a satirical site. Slam your fist on the desk and realize, "yes, I've been fooled again, a victim of my own gullibility and the Internet's surprising ability to make even the most amateurish journalism appear legit."

That almost happened to me.
But then, it didn't.

Weiden & Kennedy in London shocked the agency world   when they announced their efforts to give their employees a better work/life balance. This of course is a misnomer because if you work a staff job in advertising, the balance is more accurately described by work/self-loathing.

Nevertheless, they revealed their plan to ban meetings before 10 AM as well as after 4:00 PM. They've also instructed workers to stop reading emails past 7 PM.

As you know, I'm a card-carrying member of the United Jeopardy Watchers, Local #537. And have long advocated the reinstatement of normal business hours.

I'm a firm believer that you will not get any good ideas out of me past 5PM. And keeping me late tonight only reduces my alleged 'productivity' for tomorrow.

In fact, I believe I've broached this topic many times in the past, including Blog Posts: # 391, #407, # 482, # 631, # 741, #883, #1146, #1290, #1291, #1292, #1293, #1347, and # 1474.

The narcissist in me wants to believe that yes. Finally. People are listening to this old goat.

I've stood on this homemade soapbox and railed against the abuses dished out daily by a merciless world and now my whiny, grumpy voice is being heard. If all goes according to plan, it won't be long before we see the end of the Open Office Plan. Or the endless battalions of Planners. Planners. And more Planners.

As Jimmy McGill of Better Call Saul would say, "The headline here is: 44-Year Old Curmudgeon Sparks the Return of Common Sense."

The realist in me must always smack the narcissist upside the head, reminding him that if anyone were actually listening, Round Seventeen might actually turn a dime and earn enough money for at least a scone and latte at a local Starbucks. But it hasn't.

What's happening, and I like to believe this is widespread, is that ad agencies have unexpectedly unearthed the Law of Diminishing Returns.

Here are a few axioms of the LDR:

The more overtime your employees put in,
the less the quality of their output.

The more people involved in a decision,
the less the likelihood of making a good one.

The more weekends you steal from your people,
the less the probability you have of seeing those same people at the year end Christmas Party.

I hope the pendulum is swinging the other way. In the direction of agencies treating their employees more humanely. By being more efficient. By learning to say "No" to abusive clients. And by respecting the boundaries between work and life.

Particularly since, despite my best attempts to dissuade her, my daughter has recently expressed an interest in the advertising agency world.

Oy.

I might just take her away her car keys. Or compel her to read this blog from top to bottom.

A few days ago I was tagged on Facebook for one of those meme's that is currently floating around.

I was asked to list a dozen albums that had a lasting impact on my life and served as a musical and inspirational NorthStar for the remaining days I had on Earth.

I untagged myself.

First of all, I don't know what purpose it would serve to compile a list that could easily be the list of 20 million or so other 44 year olds who grew up on Rock and Roll. There'd be Led Zepellin, Bruce Spingsteen, Neil Young, Carlos Santana, The Allman Brothers, Little Feat, Sonny Boy Williamson and blah, blah, blah.

More to the point, rock and roll music never 'cut to the quick of my soul' or 'fueled a passion that seared my intestines with a joy that took flight'.

I don't know about you, but I was stoned or drunk through my formative years. Music was played in the background, while we did bong hits and laughed our asses off. I can recite some of the lyrics, with some musical accompaniment, but to this day, I don't have a clue what any of that mostly pretentious drivel means.

Jon Anderson has a great lilting voice, but I challenge anyone to decipher a Yes album.

That is not say there weren't albums that had a huge impact on my life. There were. I hung on every word. Studied the pacing and flow of the phrasing. And picked up on the artistic rhythms. But the albums that stayed with me were of the spoken variety.

And I think when you see the list you'll understand why:


Robert Klein -- Child of the 50's

The 2000 Year Old Man -- Mel Brooks and Carl Reiner

Another Monty Python Record -- Monty Python's Flying Circus

That's Not Funny That's Sick -- National Lampoon

No Respect -- Rodney Dangerfield

Class Clown -- George Carlin

Live on Sunset Strip -- Richard Pryor

Occupation Foole -- George Carlin

Mind Over Matter -- Robert Klein

Wild and Crazy Guy -- Steve Martin

An Evening with Groucho -- Groucho Marx

Normal -- Martin Mull

I know I repeated some of the artists, but Robert Klein and George Carlin had such a keen eye for language and observing the human condition, they deserved special mention.


I probably shouldn't do this, because the moment someone discovers something cool or interesting in LA and then opens their mouth about it, crowds of hipster douchebags descend like a swarm of man-bun-sporting cicadas after a 17 year latte-free hibernation.

Not that the under 30 crowd is reading this blog.
Or paying any attention to these 1500 posts of well-hewn grouchy wisdom.

A few weeks ago, my older friend Paul -- who just turned 50 -- called us up on Saturday night inquiring about our plans. Deb and I were thinking of doing some BMX'ing or slipping into our leather onesies and cruising around Hollywood Blvd. for some hot mid-life swinger action.

Paul had something more sedate in mind.

"Let's mosey on over the El Segundo Old Town Music Hall. They're showing Charlie Chaplin's City Lights and there's a sing-a-long on an old timey pipe organ before the show. It's the bee's knees."

He added that we could grab a bite to eat across the street at the Richmond Restaurant. I asked if they'd be willing to puree my food. And Paul said, "Not if you ask in that tone of voice, mister."

By now I think you can surmise how the evening transpired.

What might surprise you is how much fun we had.

There was big-ass, homemade food at the Richmond, which is actually a bar & grill.

We walked in, grabbed a table without waiting, and enjoyed personal attention from our server/waitress/bartender/fan of the Music Hall. Each of our entrees was less than 8 bucks and we didn't have to suffer through some bullshit pre-amble about artisanally-grown basil or triple brewed IPAs. And they had onion rings.

That's two automatic stars in my Yelp review.

Afterwards, we walked across the street and gawked at the surroundings. When the pipe organ kicked in and the alcohol had produced its lubricating effect, we found ourselves singing along with the crowd to the rhythms of Red River Valley.

This was followed by the charms of Charlie Chaplin. The silent movie was 91 minutes long but it only felt like 191 minutes.

A fun night was had by all. And we plan on going back in the time machine and doing it again.

I hope I won't see you there.

Come on get happy

Lately, I've been seeing a string of comments on social media as well as a rash of fully blown articles regarding the current state of happiness in the advertising business.

I'm sure you've seen them as well.

In essence, they argue that since we do not toil in the fields, or manufacture flanges, or change diapers on incontinent seniors, or drive 18 wheelers across the fiery hot plains of Kansas, we should all thank our lucky stars and kiss the brief-making gods who have deigned us worthy of creating banner ads and highly skippable Youtube prerolls.

After all, we, the blessed, get to roll into work in our cargo shorts and flip flops.

We can stop what we're doing and play ping pong or foosball on the company-provided amusement machines.

We can eat swag bagels and bialys left on the kitchen counter by overly cheerful media reps hawking their flimsy, unverifiable wares.

Did you know there are starving children in China who don't get swag bialys?

We are in the creative business.
And damnit we ought to stop our bitching and griping.

I have no reason, other than my close-to 1500 blogs posts, to believe these Polly Pollyanna's are directing their vilification at me, but I do. So let me offer a counter-counter perspective on the matter.

First, as a matter of credentials, in my 44 years on this earth I've worked some monumentally shitty jobs.

I delivered newspapers through the sleet, snow and humidity of upstate New York. I've been a landscaper. A fry cook. An Accounts Payable clerk. A forklift driver. One summer, I worked in the kitchen of a hospital and using nothing but my hands, a year's worth of Brillo Pads, and scalding hot water, scrubbed shoulder-high pots clean. I've been a bartender, a waiter and a mailroom clerk. And when I was moonlighting, did ALL three simultaneously.

As such, I have every right to moan about the sad state of affairs in what should be our gleeful adventures in the Creative Field.

And therein lies the fault of so many of these happiness peddlers -- the supposition that we still work in a Creative Industry.

This puts the straw in the straw man argument.

I don't know if you've been inside an advertising agency lately, I have. In the past 12 years I've stepped inside close to a hundred. And I'll tell you without hesitation, there is little Joy in Mudville.

With rare exception, we're not Creatives anymore.
We're box-checkers.
We're imaginative strategy regurgitaters.
We're planner pleasers.
We're manifesto makers.
We're 24-hour brand turnaraound specialists.
We're the crafters of Frivolous Fuckwadian Digital Knick Knacks™.
We work at the behest of marketing careerists who leverage whatever talent we might possess to further their ascension up the corporate ladder.

Know what would make me happy, Polly?

The return of Creativity to the Creative Department.

Can you feel it?

I know I can.

And I know my friends down in Austin, eating their artisanal corn beef hash and drinking their cold-filtered, kale-infused, Peruvian-roasted mocha lattes can, too.

It's SXSW time again.

This year promises to be bigger and better than ever. Even the Obamas are showing up, which will surely clog South Congress Ave. and give the residents something to buzz about other than the new shipment of alligator boots over at Allen's House of Fine Cowboy Wear.

Even as we speak, panels are being coalesced and presenters are nervously going over their material hoping to wow the young, ear-gauge-sporting adverati who have not yet been beaten into submission or yielded to the mistresses of cynicism and bitterness.

Fortunately, as in years past, I have obtained a sneak preview of what's to come at SXSW, which I'm more than happy to share with you, the faithful 11 readers of this devolving blog:


March 14, 9:00 AM - 10:00 AM -- FourSquare Introduces K9Square, a new killer app that allows users to check in and tell the world where their dog is at. SXSW attendeees will have the opportunity to witness this incredible new innovation, which FourSquare CEO Don Winkhood promises will be the first in its ever-expanding suite of digital knick knacks.


March 15, 2:00 PM-3:00 PM -- The efficiency folks from Sigma Six have returned with an encore presentation of: How to Reinvent Customized Systems with Scalable Supply Chains. followed by Scaling Your Supply Chain to Meet the Needs of your Reinvented Customized System.


March 18, 10:00 AM -- 10:00 PM -- Increasing Corporate Nimbleosity™. This mammoth 12 hour panel will redefine the operations nimbleability™ at your ad agency. A holistic approach that demonstrates how all the constituents at your shop can not only have their voices heard, but play a meaningful and effective role in the delivery of your advertising vehicles. The panel will be followed by a question and answer period where remaining guests will talk in circles until 3:00 AM or until the housekeeping staff at the Ramada Inn arrives to clean the William Taft Conference Room.

March 19, Noon- 2:00 PM. The SXSW Build Your Own Burrito Bar. It's back and it's bigger than ever. Designed by renowned architect Clive Wilkerson of SuperDesk fame, the Burrito Bar is one long 75 foot continuous table that spans the width of 6th Ave. It can accommodate hundreds of hungry ad professionals, whether they be creatives, account managers, UX designers, Planning Directors, regular planners, junior planners, planning strategists or associate assistant planners. Because let's face it, when it come to burritos there can never be too many cooks in the kitchen.

March 23, 5:00 PM -- Closing convocation given by this year's special guest, Bob Hoffman -- the Ad Contrarian. Attendee who correctly guesses how many time Bob says "Fuck", "Asshole" or "Digital Douchebag", will take home a brand new Buick Enclave.

That's right, a Buick.

Mea Culpa

I don't usually put up a R17 post on Sunday.

But while watching a replay of yesterday's Duke/North Carolina game, I saw a commercial for Red Lobster. A commercial that violated my sensibilities. And in no uncertain terms, let me know I was wrong.

I'm man enough to admit when I'm wrong. In fact, unlike politicians or even other colleagues in the ad biz, I embrace the opportunity to set the record straight.

And so I found myself at the keyboard. Going back in time to 2010, when I was quoted in AgencySpy .

  In the piece, I freely speculated what Red Lobster's new agency might find themselves doing. I predicted the new commercials would feature happy, white people in khaki pants and JC Penney era casual wear, biting and smiling their way through a buttery feast of boiled bottom-feeders.

I suggested there would be plastic smiles.

Plastic bibs.

And plastic laughter all around.

The kind of commercial that deftly strikes the right balance of appetizing food shots and product engaged consumers to "ladder up" to a meaningful, robust brand position.

Boy was I wrong.

The new spot does none of that. It's simply wall-to-wall-to-wall food porn.



I've been humbled once again. And now I must eat crustacean.

Advertising, I hardly know thee.


What started out as a funny gag on The Daily Show six months ago is now turning into America's worst nightmare -- the legitimate candidacy of one Donald J Drumpf.

And with this week's Super Tuesday sweeps, the momentum doesn't seem to be stopping anytime.

I'm 44 years old and have seen a slew of terrible presidential candidates. And I understand the aversion to Hillary Clinton or even that radical Jew from Bethlehem...er, Burlington with all his un-Christian like beliefs like feeding poor people, taking care of the sick and being kinder and gentler to our neighbors. Blasphemy!

But I have never seen a candidate as rude, as coarse, as uneducated and as unqualified to rule the free world than this merkin-donning, populist-pandering, deal-pimping gasbag who thinks he can ascend to the Presidency by promising to throw in the floor mats and undercoat sealing.

He is certifiably dangerous in a way you'd think Rance Priebus and the power brokers at the GOP would recognize.

I'm not clear on all the mechanics of delegates, super-delegates and brokered conventions. But I can suggest other viable contenders that would be more preferable than this classless gold-dusted Fascist.


Remember Captain Joe Hazelwood? He has proven leadership abilities even though he got really shitfaced one night and ran the Exxon Valdez into a sandbar, spilling millions of gallons of unrefined crude oil into the Alaskan sea.

"Give me 90 degrees hard to Starboard side. No, make that Port. Mmmmm, Port."



How about Rev. Peter Popoff? This bible-thumping charlatan has a way with people. He's been ripping them off, soliciting their donations and rewarding their good will with small vials of Jesus water.



Americans love a candidate with military experience. What about General Buck Turgidson? When asked about his plans for a pre-emptive strike on Russia, he replied, "I'm not saying we wouldn't get our hair mussed. But I do say no more than 10 to 20 million killed, tops. Depending on the breaks."



And finally, there's Iris Castillo. A Florida (no surprise there) man who was recently arrested for the third time for having sex with a horse. But Americans love a candidate with a sense of determination an innate sense of animal husbandry.


God is not done talking.

Last week, you might have read the ramblings from Rafael Bienvenido Cruz (Ted's daddy) who claims God sent a sign to Heidi, Mrs. Cruz. I don't know why our Lord, Host of Hosts, could not speak directly to Ted, perhaps Cruz was unreachable while forcibly kissing reluctant babies on the campaign stump.

Rafael claims God whispered, "Seek God's face, not God's hand."


This led Ted to believe that the Almighty was calling him to the White House.

"Lord, here I am, use me. I surrender to you, whatever you want." -- replied a genuflecting Theodore.

A phrase commonly used by submissive men in the company of $300 dominatrix escorts found on the backpages of Backpage.

Or so, I'm told.

But as I mentioned earlier, God was not done. After his chat with Mrs. Cruz, and after he told a gun-toting Uber driver in Michigan to mow down a half a dozen random folks in Kalamazoo, and after he instructed some skinny Somalians to strap on suicide vests and decimate a hotel in Africa, he tapped me on the shoulder.


GOD: Rich, I want you to run for President.

ME: God, I think you have the wrong narcissist.

GOD: I'm infallible, damnit.

ME: But I'm an ad guy.

GOD: If you can figure out an ad brief, you can go to DC and straighten this mess out.

ME: I'm terrible at office politics. Have you seen all the knife wounds in my back?

GOD: Rich, don't know if you noticed, but this is the year of the non-politician.

ME: I'm not smart enough.

GOD: Hello. Donald Trump doesn't even know about the Nuclear Triad.

ME: I can think of a thousand reasons why I'm not fit for the office.

GOD: Only a thousand? Have you been watching any of the debates?

ME: Well, it would be nice to take care of some of the shit that's been bothering me. Like Graffiti.

GOD: Give them the Death Penalty.

ME: People who text while driving.

GOD: More Death Penalty.

ME: People who wash their cars during a drought.

GOD: Did I mention the Death Penalty?

ME: This is starting to sound good. But I'm having a really good year as a freelancer. If I became President of the United States, I'd have to take a serious pay cut.

GOD: I can't help you there. Good luck getting more money from a Republican Senate.

It's Official

I've seen more sunrises in the past month than I have in my entire lifetime.

I don't know how it happened, nor am I happy it did, but I've become an early riser.

There was a time when I'd be beckoned from my slumber by the insistent call of a nocturnal bladder. I'd get up, stumble to the bathroom, do my business, leave the seat up, go back to bed and within 30 seconds I'd return to deep REM sleep and dreamy visions of Kate Upton and Charlotte McKinney, hot oil wrestling for my attention and the opportunity to stick their tongue in my now-hairy ears.

Those days are gone.

Now I find myself lying in bed, hyper-oxygenating and working feverishly to turn my brain off. Hoping beyond hope that the digital clock now flashing a 4 or 5 will magically become a 7 or an 8.

But, like my wish that common sense would return to the corporate boardroom, it's just not happening.

And so I find myself, as my wife often finds me, back at the computer. Working. And writing. If I may borrow a line from an old US Army commercial, "I've written more by 9 AM than most millineal copyfolks write in a month."

By the time I get to the office, I've already downed a pot of coffee and have to switch over to decaf lest I find myself volunteering to help the IT guy rewire the HTML UNIX-Based server confibulators.

Apart from my wife's objections, who used to enjoy the quiet hours of the morning all to herself, getting up early is not the worst thing in the world. Though not apparent from this piece, I feel the writing I do in the morning is better than the writing I do later in the day.

My head is clear. The synapses fire cleaner and more efficiently. And I'm not trying to sort through the endless string of comments, notes and critiques of people who don't write but love to pull on the puppet strings of those who do.

The professional vernacular for this is "feedback." Which, if you were to break down in etymological terms, is suspiciously close to vomit.

This is all good news for agencies or clients that hire me, because I'm now working more time on your behalf than ever before. If I start work at 5 AM and leave the office at 6 PM, minus the time for my afternoon swim, I've already put in a good dozen hours. So I'm not really interested in taking any guff from folks who wear their all-nighter adventures like some stupid badge of honor.

"Banker's hours, Rich?"

"No, doughnut-makers hours wise guy. Good night."



It's an unusual day that I'm always hyper-aware of, simply because it comes a day after my birthday. Thank you to all the well wishers who tried to ease the pain of spending February 28th at the office. On a Sunday. Locked in heated thought battles with other advertising veterans in order to prime America's voracious engine of capitalism.

Happy 44th to me.

Being it's an unusual date on the calendar that only comes to us once every four years, the same timespan it takes for one politician in all of Washington DC to say or propose ONE good idea, I thought I'd do something equally rare. And spread a heaping helping of praise on my favorite people-- the Planners.

But don't get too far ahead of yourselves. Because the three best Planners I've ever worked with aren't really Planners.

First up, there's Tamer Kattan.

I'm using his name because I got permission to use his name. We met during my early days of freelancing at Chiat/Day. What struck me was Tamer's distinctive ability to articulate his thoughts. Not with marketingese or any of the semantic gymnastics employed by so many others in the profession. But English. Clear, concise, declarative English. Moreover he brought actual insight.

It made his briefs easy to understand.

Interestingly enough, it also made it difficult to fault his logic. Amazing how that works, huh?

Tamer has such a command of the language (and solid thinking) that he is no longer a Planner and works his linguistic magic as a stand up comedian. He's incredibly talented and I have no doubt he will soon be appearing on stage with Fallon or Kimmel before the next Leap Year.

My second favorite Planner is....oh shit I forgot to get his permission.

Let's just call him Josh. He is an Art Director by trade. But is also vocationally ambidextrous. Josh spent the last few years employed as a Producer/Consultant on MadMen, maybe you heard of it. We've done a few projects together and I've never ceased to be amazed by his ability to analyze a business challenge, break down all its components and construct an original plan of attack.

Josh is fond of saying, "we need to find a unique position that defines the client's brand and leaves the competitor's debilitated by jealousy."

That kind of singular brilliance is rarely found in a PowerPoint deck or a three page brief of convoluted run-on sentences.

And finally, the third best Planner I've ever worked with is Lee Clow. In this context, I should also include Steve Hayden. I've had the pleasure of working for both of them. Neither are Planners. But both have the reductionist instinct to cut through all the bullshit, to dispense with all the Venn diagrams, and to spit out a piercing strategy based on an assessment of the cultural landscape and the vision of where great creative advertising can go.

I could go a few more pages contrasting the credentials of these non-Planners with those who have made it their official profession. And probably lay a few stinging body punches and uppercuts regarding trapezoids, big data and the unsettling, ubiquitous business of Planners acting as proxy Creative Directors.

"I'd kill that spot because my 2 years of business experience tells me it doesn't fit the strategy."

But I'm not going to do that.

Today I'm taking the High Road -- a road I travel once every four years or so.

What a long strange trip it's been

Spoiler Alert: If you're thinking this posting is going to be about Quinton Tarantino's latest movie you're going to be disapppointed. I haven't seen the film, but knowing his body of work I'm going to assume there is plenty of gunplay, oozing blood, and unfulfilled wishes of revenge blissfully and cinematically fulfilled.

If only that were allowed in advertising.

No, I borrowed the title type treatment because we here at RoundSeventeen corporate headquarters are about to celebrate a milestone and head into our 8th full year of meaningless, not-for-profit, self publication.

I started this blog on a whim, not knowing what or where it would lead to. This has been my modus operandi for as long as I can remember.

My daily email correspondence with Nigerian scammers  began the same way.

My constant jabbing at the jowly juvenile  in Pyongyang, also the same.

And my collection of "fictionalized" short stories  about advertising, ditto.

The truth is, I'm constantly looking for new creative venues to express myself. Perhaps one day I'll publish my assemblage of Gaelic Love Poems written from the perspective of a heartbroken, 23-year old Glasgowegian butter churner.

You might be wondering, as I often do on Saturday morning's when I'm staring at a blank page, what more could Siegel possibly talk about?

Truth be told I ran out of fresh way back in 2013. So I just keep deconstructing and rehashing the same material over and over again.

Why? Because believe it or not, this blog keeps me semi-gainfully employed. With it, I am in front of the faces of the people who need writers every day. I'm on their radar. And as others will attest, apart from its therapeutic qualities, writing a blog also allows me to keep writing out invoices.

But here's the deal.

This highly unprofitable blog will cease to exist when I no longer have to descend into the advertising trenches to foot the bills. That will probably be the day my youngest daughter graduates from college. Or Elon Musk runs his Hyperloop train over the 10 scrubby acres of land I own in Panamint Springs, CA.

Whichever comes first.

And the Gold goes to....

I've often said, "there's nothing more amusing than White Trash."

To that end, my buddy Greg, who hails from the Tennessee, always volunteers to indulge my fascination by sending me regular news clippings ripped from the pages of local Appalachian "newspapers."

Greg, an alumni of Cocke County High School, (Go Cockes, Go!), hand selects the very best material. However, despite reaching new heights in hillbilly ineptitude, these homegrown tales pale in comparison to the stories coming from Russia and the Caucasus Mountains, birthplace of the Caucasians -- the original White Trash.

And so, because I am short on time and long on work responsibilities this week, and because these juicy photos keep showing up in my Facebook memories, I am revisiting the photojournalistic journey we took two years ago to the Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia.

Remember Olga?


Feb 21, 2014, Sochi, Russia -- Barista at local Starbucks prepares for the morning crowds.




Feb. 24, 2014, Sochi, Russia -- Construction workers put the finishing touches on the newly-built Sochi Hyatt Regency Hotel.



Feb. 25, 2104, Sochi, Russia -- With a little Soviet-style ingenuity, Russian Curling Team arrives at competition just in time.



Feb. 26, 2104, Sochi, Russia -- Finnish Speed Skater tells upset hotel manager, "I tried jiggling the knob."




Feb. 26, 2014 Sochi, Russia -- Polish Hockey team departs from Moscow after mechanical issues are resolved.



Feb. 28, 2014 Sochi, Russia -- Homeowners next to Olympic Biathlon course plan lawsuits.


I know the Olympics Committee will soon be deciding on the location of the next venue, but for my money, I wish they'd dispense with all the back room shenanigans, the graft and the international geopolitics and make Mother Russia the permanent home of the Olympics. Winter, Summer or otherwise.


"Cut me off a heaping helping of that Vladimir Lenin birthday cake."

No slash for me, thank you.

Several weeks ago I woke up at 5:00AM to a troubling email.

Actually, the fact that I was awake at 5 AM is troubling enough. I used to sleep like a bear who had stumbled unto a winter's worth of Maker's Mark and a bottle of Nyquil, but now I find myself rising before the sun and all the neighbor's barking dogs.

I won't share the identity of the email sender, suffice to say it was from a former Chiat/Day colleague.

She asked if I had written the Here's to the Crazy Ones anthem spot.

Perhaps because I have written so many manifestos, some good, many achingly bad, the confusion is somewhat understandable. Also because Rob Siltanen and I share the same initials. Not to mention the rugged, athletic good looks that always leaves women thinking, "Damn, all the good ones are taken."

Nevertheless, I wanted to stop this train of thought before it ever left the station. And told my former colleague, in no uncertain terms and with no room for vagary, that I did NOT write the Apple anthem.

More importantly, I wanted it to get back to Rob Siltanen that I had done all that I could to distance myself from this rumor. Not because the work isn't great, it is. But because I had absolutely nothing to do with it.

Look, I'm well aware of my reputation in this business. I can be hardheaded, opinionated, and monumentally contentious. In fact, I'm working for a creative director right now who could probably add some other colorful phrases. I can live with all that, because it's all in service of the Work.

But the ad agency world is jammed jelly-tight with people who game the system, who allow rumors to fester, who play the PR machine like it's a Stradivarius and who hound glory that is not theirs to hound.

I know who they are.

You know they are.

I am not one of them.

Shit's Getting Real in the Best Buy Parking lot.

Don't know if you can see it, but that's me in the lower left hand corner of the photo. I'm sporting my Tony Soprano Adidas track suit, seated at a fold up table in a strategic position where I can address Best Buy shoppers before entering their palace of overpriced, Chinese-made home gadgetry.

Why would I take a few precious hours out of my Saturday morning to set up camp at the big box store, you might be wondering.

Well, this is from 2008 and let's just say that as a 36 year old copywriter I was full of piss and vinegar. I'm 44 now. My prostate has tripled in size. And my bladder no longer has the capacity for piss. Or vinegar.

But boy was I miffed. I had just shelled out $2200 for a brand new Pioneer 50" HD Flatscreen TV. And initially I thought I had hit the electronics jackpot. The picture was beautiful. The sound from their patented SoundBar9000™ was flawless. And the massive TV fit like a precision cut puzzle piece in the family room entertainment unit.

Life, in front of my multi-million pixel portal of football, nature documentaries and late night Skin-a-Max movies was good.

Until three months later, when it wasn't.

The Confibulated Hydroponic Transducer Module had blown out. And the repair was not covered by the good folks at Pioneer. Nor would they do anything to mitigate the cost -- $811.37.

This did not sit well with me. And so, in keeping with a Siegel tradition that dates way back to the grub-farming shtetls of western Poland and eastern Russia, when hit, I hit back.

If Pioneer was going to take $811 from my pocket, I reasoned, I would take at least that much from theirs. By convincing flatscreen TV hunters to steer away from the Pioneer brand.

Here's the sign mounted on my folding table.



Of course, I didn't stop there. Because I wasn't going to let a good grudge go to waste. I also had bumper stickers printed out and gave those away to shoppers who must have been thinking, "this man is certifiable. And he's wearing a wedding ring. That poor woman."

There was this one...


and this one...


and this one....


and finally this one...


I'm happy to say my taking-it-to-the-street guerilla warfare had its desired effect and NOT one single Pioneer TV was sold that day. Mostly, as I learned later from the Assistant Manager who booted me from the parking lot, because Best Buy had stopped stocking Pioneer TV's on their shelves.

But I'm not going to let a technicality like that detract from my hard-fought victory.


Allow me to be honest with you.

Actually, there have been very few occasions when I have not been honest with you. This inability to mask my true feelings and deceitfully manipulate the behavior of colleagues, above all else, accounts for my professional underachievement.

Nevertheless.

Each week I approach this blog with several ideas for my semi-daily posts (which by the way are all written on Saturday morning). This week, perhaps because I am knee-deep in a project, I found myself coming up short on ideas.

I'll write it later, I thought.

The good Lord, who I don't believe in, will surely provide the necessary material. Perhaps on Monday. Or Tuesday. Or maybe even Wednesday, which would have thrown me into a last minute tailspin.

But he, or she, in their Flying Spaghetti Monster goodness, delivered the goods on Sunday morning. Submitted for your amusement, a full page newspaper ad --remember those?-- for Cologuard, the latest advancement in the dubious  world of medical screening .

From what I can gather from the ad and the overly excited man who has just received his Cologuard home testing package, the premise is very simple: you get the box, you shit in the box and you send the box back to Cologuard whose employees in the mailroom must surely be cursing their wretched shit-box receiving lives.

I give the ad agency points for staying on brief (insert underwear joke here), and employing ethnically diverse characters.

However, after spending a life in the agency world and knowing that good work often gets killed by pedantic people who have no right to kill good work, I can't help thinking there were other concepts and headlines pinned to the foam core board that might have merited further consideration...


Drop the kids off at the Post Office.


Your #2 is our #1 Priority.


Take advantage of our President's Day Special. Send us your Lincoln Logs.


What did you have for dinner last night?


"Open the pod bay doors, Hal."


And in a nod to the convenience of UPS Shipping,


What can Brown do for you?

The premise of today's post could be completely negated by a market upswing, which by the way would suit me fine.

But the truth is the stock market has me worried. And has for a while.

Mind you, in comparison to the big boys, I'm only playing with bottle caps. But they're my bottle caps and I'm gonna need as many as possible to avoid ending up at the Filthy Floors & Dirty Towels Retirement Home.

So, about 8 months ago, having ridden the Bull for a good long while, I started taking some money, er...bottle caps off the table. A slow, methodical retreat against the "better" advice of my financial advisor.

I sold what little stock I had. And I instructed the advisor to move my pittance of money from Growth funds to less volatile Conservative funds.

I'll be the first to admit I don't understand the ins and outs of investing. What I do know is gleaned from movies like The Wolf of Wall Street and the more recent the Big Short. Not a ringing endorsement for those in the finance industry.

And while I'm not up to speed on price to earnings ratios or dividend distributions or upside potential, I am able to read a room. Or in this case a planet. And I don't like what I see with the Chinese economy. I don't like the expanding Russian sphere of influence. And I don't like the proxy wars in the Middle East, where logic and reason have as much value as Enron stock.

And so, like a responsible teenage boy, I'm pulling out.

Even though I have the resting heartbeat of an Olympic Athlete (51 BPM) I just can't take the wild swings of the Dow Jones lately. This is problematic, says my advisor, who wonders aloud...

"I understand you're nervous, Rich. But it's impossible to time the market. How will you know when it's right to get back in?"

Get back in? I thought.

Listen up Jordan Belfort, I'm sinking whatever shekels I have, into these...

Today's post is for my people.

No, not grumpy 44 year old Jews with an unlimited supply of righteous indignation and a garage full of soapboxes.

I'm talking about art directors and copywriters, of the freelance variety. So, if you're looking for something pithy about politics, parenting, neighborhood relations, the skyrocketing cost of college, or even a dismal recap of this year's Super Bowl extravaganza, you'll have to look elsewhere.

Today, February 16th, 2016, there are more advertising freelancers than I have ever seen in my entire career. There isn't a day that goes by that I don't receive a phone call, a text or an email to the effect of, "Hey, Rich if you know of any gigs out there send me your overflow."

Ok, that's not entirely true -- those requests never come via a phone call.

The point is, there are a lot of us creative mercenaries. And I don't think that's bad for ad agencies. In fact, as I have pointed out many times before, I believe it can be good. Very, very good.

As a public service to ad agencies all across this great land as well as those on the other side of the Greenwich Line (because I occasionally go international), I'd like to offer up some helpful hints in what I'm calling:

The Care and Feeding of Your Freelancer

1. Be Prepared -- Years ago, I was hired for a long term project at a rather obscene day rate. I won't say the name of the company but it rhymes with Zapple. I arrived on a Monday morning, ready to dazzle the Zapple people with my creative wares. But the Brief was not ready until Thursday. That's three full wasted day rates. Look, I'm happy to take your money, cruise Internet memes and pore through photos of Kim Jung Un  all day long, but after a while Jewish guilt sets in. We want to work. Just tell us what the ideas are supposed to be about.

2. Give Us Time -- Over the last dozen years, I've been brought in countless times to reposition a brand. This is a monumental task. And it doesn't happen in the span of one rotation of the earth. "Here's the brief, let's see where you're at tomorrow morning."  Look, I wasn't in the room at Chiat/Day when they came up with Think Different and Here's to the Crazy Ones, and by the way it's shameful how many people are claiming credit for that work, but I was down the hall when it came into being. And I can tell you it didn't happen overnight. Or overweek. Or even Overmonth. To that end, I urge you to watch this video .

3. Less Meetings, More Work -- It goes without saying that if you've hired a freelancer you're paying a premium for what you hope to receive are solid sellable solutions. What you don't want to be doing is paying top dollar to a bunch of fidgety creatives who are inordinately averse to PowerPoint decks, marketing-speak, and incomprehensible intersecting Rhomboids and Trapezoids. Wink, wink, we hate trapezoids. There's a reason they have sold 473 million of these coffee mugs.


4.  Lay off the Layers -- If there's one thing we've learned from Washington DC and our inept members of Congress, it's that bureaucracy and politics produce more bureaucracy and more politics. Nothing good ever came out of GroupThink, with the possible exception of Windows 95™. Freelancers want nothing more than to do the work. We have no hidden agendas. No ambition. And no desire to move up the company org. chart. Hell, we don't even want to look at a company org. chart. It's why we became freelancers in the first place.

5.  The Long Leash -- My dog is 13 years old, pushing on 14. When I take her out a night for walk I put her on the leash. But the truth is I don't have to. She doesn't pull ahead, as she did when she was a pup. She doesn't bolt across the street to chase squirrels. She simply walks by my side and obeys all my commands. It's the benefit of experience. Similarly, most freelancers tend to be on the older side. Not 44 like me, but they've been around the block. You can depend on them. They're going to get the work done. Whether it's offsite or onsite. Or a flexible combination of both. Of course, if you want them onsite, it's always a good idea to have free food around. We are by nature, cheap dates.

6. 1099 Us -- I'm no accountant, though I come from a long line of CPA's, but I can't tell you the exuberant joy that courses through my body when, prior to booking a gig, an HR person will ask, "Is it OK if we 1099 you?" OK? I'll slash my day rate to get a full 1099 paycheck.  I'll gladly let my crafty accountant sort through the tax code and get me deductions for everything from my oven roasted turkey sandwiches (eaten while working) to my new Shimano FSX Mountain Bike (ridden while ideating.) Note: we also hate the word ideating.

With the possible exception of the last tip, all these tips are guaranteed to increase the bottom line of ad agencies hiring freelancers. And really, isn't that what's it's all about? Making more money for the holding companies.

I'm going to stop here at 6 points. I know that's an odd number and doesn't fit into the common listicle format of 5 or even 10. But that's exactly the kind of reckless and irresponsible freedom that makes life worth living as an advertising freelancer.


From the "I-Had-That-Idea-But-Someone-Else-Did-It" File.

Talk to anyone involved in the creative business and it won't be long before you start sharing stories about how one of their ideas never made it to fruition. That is until somebody else made millions of dollars off the same exact thought.

Happens everyday.
To everybody.

But, I happen to have a blog, a platform, "a showcase for my thin-skinned assholery" as one recent observer noted on Twitter, so I'm going to blather on about it.

Two weeks ago, short on ideas of what to do with ourselves and short on energy to take a hike, my wife and I sauntered over to the Culver theaters to watch the overhyped Stars Wars movie. It was awful. A tired, poorly-acted rehash of the original.

The scene comparing the original Death Star to the newly-improved, suspiciously similar Death Star was a laughable summation of the entire money-printing enterprise.

Prior to the movie, there was a trailer for an upcoming Pixar movie.
Perhaps you've seen it.




It may not be familiar to you, but it is achingly familiar to me.

You see, years ago when I was still being hired to come up with Super Bowl ideas -- now I'm brought in to do banners, tweets and the occasional FSI -- my partner and I came up with what we thought was a brilliant premise. I'll be the first to admit it was a premise that could've, with a little copywriting gymnastics at the end, been applied to anything from a car to a beer to a burger.

In a nutshell, a family goes on vacation to the Brazilian rainforest. Their four year old son wonders off into jungle and cannot be found. He survives however and is raised by a pack of Amazonian three-toed sloths. He eats, sleeps and lives with the sloths through his entire childhood. Until, through a miracle, he is found and reunited with his loving parents who must now cope with their long lost SlothBoy.

And it is from that painful slowness, a wealth of wacky vignettes are born. Set against the noisy bombast and stupidity of today's Super Bowl fare, I am convinced we could have produced a memorably funny spot.

To wit, the trailer for Zootopia produced ear-drum bursting howls of laughter. And listening to a crowded theater hang on every word made it impossible not to recall all the failed opportunities in my deeply-flawed career. It was nothing short of Chinese Water Torture.

Slow.
Painful.
Agonizing.
And did I mention slow?

As the trailer faded to darkness, I could hear through half-eaten popcorn kernels, the couple behind me, "that was the funniest thing I ever saw."

Yeah, I thought, it would've been a lot funnier in 2009.

Ouch, that hurts.

What you're looking at is my rock hard, Popeye-like, bulging forearm.

This eye-stopping level of turgidity is not the result of many hours in the gym doing preacher curls. Nor, for you prurient-minded, is it the result of any other strenuous right-handed physical exertion.

So what is it that has me writing about my abnormally swollen arm but not having it treated at the local Urgent Care Center as my wife has so wisely advised?

I got stung by a bee.

Those of you who read RoundSeventeen on a regular basis, and I think that number is somewhere near 8, may recall that I was also stung by a bee while swimming way back in April 2015. I'll save you the visual, but the result was equally tumescent and equally revolting.

On that occasion, I did see a "doctor", a fresh-off-the-boat Persian fellow who barely spoke English and apparently skipped classes at Tehran University the day they were learning about how to treat a bee sting.

Having taken a cursory look at the bee sting, he decided the best option was to administer some novocaine and "dig around with a scalpel" ( his words, not mine) hoping to find the stinger which he believed was lodged beneath the skin.

I wasn't about to go that route again.

For now, I'm just watching, with no small amount of morbid fascination, as the forearm ballooning increases and creeps its way up towards my shoulder. To be honest, it's not unlike a teenage experiment when you leave a rotting tub of cottage cheese in the fridge to see what kind of colors and growth will emerge.

I'll just keep icing it down. And enjoy this legitimate excuse to self-medicate with multiple tumblers of high octane whiskey and easy-to-swallow Vicodin.

I've also made my wife kiss the boo-boo, but she wouldn't let me take a picture of that.

Christ, are you kidding me?

Last week, I heard a Presidential candidate say something I never thought I'd hear from a politician. Which in itself is quite amazing in light of Donald Trump's unprecedented...

"I will bomb the shit out of them."

"I could shoot somebody on 5th avenue and still win the nomination."

"If she wasn't my daughter I'd be hitting that."

In response to a question from Anderson Cooper, Bernie Sanders, a smarter, thinner, better-dressed version of my zaida, said he was an Atheist. Oh Lordy, I thought, you can't tell the American people you don't believe in God and then expect to get elected.

A sad state of affairs considering we are a nation built upon the separation of church and state. As well as the foundation of religious liberty. Although apparently that liberty does not include the right NOT to believe in God.

Of course Constitutional arguments rarely have any sway to those who purport to cling to it with all their heart and soul.

Contrast Sander's atheism with the resurgence of Ted Cruz, who has publicly stated he answers to Jesus and is a Christian first and an American second.

I'm no expert on Scripture. I have a vague recollection of the Torah portion from my Bar Mitzvah. Something about slaying a goat, burying one of its legs in the ground and offering up the remainders to Adonai, the Host of Hosts, Master and Commander of the vast universe. Oh and don't quote me on that.

But I'm not sure which Jesus Christ, Mr. Cruz is referring to.

When asked how he would deal win ISIS in Raqaa (where thousands of innocent civilians also live), he said, "We will carpet bomb ISIS into oblivion. I don't know if sand can glow in the dark, but we're going to find out."

Is that from Mathew 3:14?

Revelation 2:28?

Or is it something more obscure from Thessalonians?

And here's the real irony. For all his humanism, his ancestral Jewishness and his proclamation of disbelief, Sanders, it can be argued, is by far the most Christian or Christ-like of all the candidates.

He has an open disdain for the obscenely wealthy who work for their own interests and no one else's.

He wants to feed the poor and heal the sick.

He is decidedly Pacifist.

And he can walk on water. (OK, that came from one of his young supporters who was admittedly stoned at the time, but Bernie also wants to legalize marijuana.)

Lastly, Bernie Sanders wants to make college free to any student seeking higher education. Free? Where were you 4 years ago? You'll probably get the law enacted the same day my youngest gets her $250,000 sheepskin.

I damn you to the hell you don't believe in, Bernie Sanders.

Last week, the Internet was on fire with memes about Martin Shkreli, the pharmaceutical douchebag who tried to gouge sick seniors by raising the price of one particular drug. Many claimed he had one of the Top Ten Punchable Faces.

I don't make it a habit of punching people, but if I did, local Weather Boy/tanning booth abuser Dallas Raines would be at the top of my list.

For months now he has been pimping the fictional arrival of the big El Nino, a Pacific ocean phenomena that produces huge amounts of rain.

To date, it has not.

In fact, in what was promised to be one of the wettest winters ever recorded in Southern California, our levels are still below normal.

Rich, I can hear you saying through the Internet, isn't it a little futile to be complaining about the lack of rain and the pinstriped buffoon with his ridiculous signature hand gestures? Yes it is. But I didn't get to 1400 blog posts by ignoring the little futilities of life.

Besides, Dallas Raines, Fritz Coleman and the KCBS "meteorologist" who wears the tight dresses , are not completely without blame. Because while they haven't produced much in the way of moisture, that hasn't stopped them from frothing at the mouth with endless teasers and precipatory promises.

"A big storm is headed our way, how much rain we will get?"

"Could this be the big one we've been expecting?"

"Are we in for a wet week? Find out at 11."

You'll notice all these teases are phrased as questions. And for good reason. Dallas has seen the reports from the National Weather Service. I should say someone who knows how to read those maps and reports has seen them and told Dallas what to say on screen. They know there's no rain coming. But that doesn't stop Dallas from making the inference and get all worked up like a monkey raised on sugar and cocaine.

Why?
Money.

The "news" networks have research that shows the mere mention about the possibility of water falling from the sky in Southern California sends the ratings up. Way up.

And good ratings means good revenue from advertisers. And good revenue means Dallas can afford his twice a day micro-laser teeth whitening treatments.

There is no El Nino.
There is no Ebola or Zika epidemic.
There is no homosexual agenda.
There is no War on Christianity.
There is no political revolution.
And there is no Breaking News.

It's all just one 24-hour a day, media-fueled bukake of fist-pumping hype.

And this nonsense about rain is just a drop in the bucket.

We Need More Writers

Coming from someone who is keenly aware of the competition and how a glut of writers threaten to take food off my table, send me to a premature retirement and will one day land me behind the wheel of my Lexus, Ubering Angelenos to LAX, you might find it strange that I wish more people would write, but I do.

Keep in mind, I'm not saying we need more copywriters. Hell no, we need fewer of those.

But we do need more people familiar with the notion of structure, composition and disciplined thinking.

You see, with the advent of the computer, the internet and the god-awful open office plan, we have lost something vital to the future -- the ability to express a thought with any degree of clarity. Speaking from experience, I know this to be true in the corporate world, but I suspect it applies elsewhere.

Today, we live in an age of abbreviated thinking. Texts, with no vowels. Decks, with bullet points but no insight. And last, but hardly least meaningful, Mood boards.

Let's not forget about the rise of the Emoji. If it's any indication of where American business is going, it won't be long before we're grunting at each other and drawing on cave walls like our ancestors.

I know you think I'm exaggerating but I'm not.

Recently overheard at the cubicle farm:

"Hey Bill, I was thinking about that project, what about flanges?"

"What? What about them?"

"I don't know, I was just thinking about flanges."

End scene.

That's not the way it used to be.

From my days in the mailroom I remember a little something called the Interoffice Memo.

If a junior executive wanted to spring an idea on his or her cohorts, that junior executive took the time and the effort to spell it all out, from beginning to end, with a premise, logical proof points and a rock-solid conclusion that left no doubt this junior executive is upper management material.

Granted this was borne out of a Cover Your Ass mentality, but at least it forced people to think and properly write out their ideas. Moreover, it produced a sense of accountability. The world moves a lot faster since the days I pushed that damn mailroom cart up and down the hallways at Needham, Harper & Steers for $800 a month. But maybe we'd all be doing ourselves a favor if we just slowed down.

When I was staff Creative Director, a young team was presenting their ideas for a new campaign. As they papered the wall in my office with colored Post It Notes, the art director qualified the pitch...

"I just want to say these ideas aren't fully baked yet but I think we're onto something."

"Good," I told them, "bring it back when they're fully baked."


No one on this earth would ever describe me as fashion forward.

I am at my most comfortable throwing on some dungarees, a tee shirt and a North Face fleece which has just the right amount of thickness to hide my excessive hipline yet not too thick to cause excessive sweating.

My only concession to style would be my $180 Panama Jack ankle-high leather boots .

I wear them because they are comfortable, provide ample support against my plantar fascitis and because the Vibram heel adds 3/4 inch to my stature, barely lifting me out of being labeled a short guy.

That is not to say I am completely unaware of the latest sartorial trends.

Working in advertising, I bear ample witness to ear gauges, frothy beards, stingy brim fedoras and the oh-so-popular man bun. I am not interested in any of these affectations, I am only interested in making uninformed old man prejudgments of those who choose to partake in them.

As a grumpy old timer who enjoys the artificiality of those who have not advanced to 44 years of age, I make it my duty to spot new and upcoming trends.

And as you might have guessed, we have one -- the Jacques Cousteau look.

For many of you that reference will seem dated. Not to worry, Cousteau's life was spoofed by the highly overrated Wes Anderson (with the exception of Fantastic Mr. Fox) and the unwatchable Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou.


In the past two weeks I've now spotted no fewer than 10 hipsters sporting this exact look. Mostly at the nearby Whole Foods Store, where it gets "unreal in the parking lot."

What I find most amazing about those bedecked with this latest manifestation of faux masculinity is the thinness of it all.

Because I'd put my testicles up on the chopping block to bet that if you were to shake the hands of these landlubbing "sailors", you'd find the soft, uncalloused skin of a man who has never skippered a boat, never fished at sea and never even tied a Sheepshead Knot.

Uber hung over

I curse you Uber. Which I am convinced is an amalgamation of, "I used to be sober."

Allow me to explain.

Every so often I will get together with some old ad buddies from Team One. Though saddled with one of the worst clients in advertising history, a man who spoke no more 300 words of English, we had a unique camaraderie at the offices on Grand Blvd. in the heart of smelly El Segundo, where the the refinery meets the sea.

These infrequent occasions are marked by laughing, drinking, more laughing, and more drinking.

To wit, the plan was to grab a long table at Alejo's Italian Restaurant near LAX, guzzle beer and down enough garlic bread to stave off all the vampires in Transylvania. For those arriving early, there was the pre-dinner promise of ample whiskey at the Hacienda --a Mexican dive next door with a full liquor license.

We never made it to Alejo's.

Knowing what would transpire I did the mature thing and Ubered (the newest verb to enter Webster's dictionary) from my house in Culver City.

Unencumbered by the thought of having to drive home, fingers crossed, with a mouthful of breath mints, one rotgut Manhattan led to another and another.

One wouldn't normally pair up a whiskey drink with tacos carne asada, but we weren't there for the food.

Unlike our NY advertising brethren and their foodie tendencies (I'm very well acquainted with the steak and pom frite at Rauols), we weren't there to drop C-notes and regal each other with stories about starfucking parties on the Upper West Side. Or Studio 54. Or wherever NY elitists gather these days, with their Tony Jacklin golf clubs and bleeding masonic handshakes!

To make a long drinking story mercifully short, we ended up closing the place.

Sadly, we dispersed before Stan Toyama could amuse us with his stinging and deadly-accurate impression of Mr. Chikuma, the aforementioned Team One client who made our lives a miserable hell but also bonded us and gave us a lasting brotherhood not unlike the one shared by survivors of the Bataan Death March.

Fortunately we had the wherewithal to ask the waitress, or for all I can recall it could have been a waiter, to snap a photo of this legendary night.

And whether it was through serendipity or the guiding hand of a posthumous former CMO, we have this unimaginably fortuitous, perfectly timed snapshot for our scrapbooks.


Not long ago, a Creative Services Manager told me something in confidence.

She said how much more pleasant her job would be if other freelancers replied as quickly to her emails as I did.

Naturally, this came as quite a shock. Because food doesn't get on my table, beer doesn't get in my fridge and bursars from the University of Colorado and Washington don't get their pound of my flesh, unless I respond as quickly as possible to ANY inquiry for freelance work.

I like to think that my particular brand of copywriting was what separated me from my colleagues, but now I'm discovering the reason I stay busy all the time has more to do with my obsessive punctuality and responsible email etiquette.

Who cares?
This movie isn't ending with me in a dirty nursing home.
I'll take work anyway and anywhere I can get it.

On that note I recently enjoyed an experience that may be familiar to many freelancers. Or, maybe not.

I had just finished an assignment for an out of town ad agency -- the best kind of assignment, a solo writing gig that entailed a generous day rate, my Herman Miller chair, the freedom of a midday swim followed by a sandwich from the increasingly-popular Jackson Market  which is an easy dog walk away from my house.

I wasn't booked for my next gig, but that was about to change. Quickly. Because on the same day, on the same morning, I fielded two questions regarding my availability.

Two!

It was as if I were the prettiest girl in high school fending off woo from both the football team quarterback AND the basketball team high scoring power forward.





I responded "yes" to both requests and transmitted my replies as fast as the confabulated flik-flaks of the Internet could deliver them. And then, from the comfort of my Adidas nylon sweatpants, I sat back and imagined the frenzied chatter of both resource management teams.

"We gotta get Siegel in here."

" I don't care about his 'get-home-before-Jeopardy' work policy."

"Tell him we'll double what the other agency is willing to pay."

Of course, that's not exactly how it all played out. As in all cases I simply said 'yes' to the first caller who went beyond the availability question and put a solid booking on the table.

But, a man can dream can't he?


You probably noticed, but in addition to David Bowie and Glen Frey, there have been a lot of deaths in the musical world lately. And with it, the attendant gushy obituaries and sappy Facebook tomes.

I have not been a participant in that type of public weeping. Don't get me wrong, I love music as much as the next fellow, I'm listening to Mark Knopfler tear up the frets even as I am writing this piece.

But, because I never aspired to be a guitar player, singer, drummer or piano player, I don't see their passing as a monumental life milestone. I'm pretty sure when John Lennon was shot I was eating a beef burrito at Burrito King on Lincoln Blvd., then again, maybe I wasn't.

That is not to say I did not have childhood heroes. I did.

They all worked at the National Lampoon. In fact, I knew from reading the Adventures of Politeness Man, Pinto's First Lay and the intricate, dark and perverted tales told in National Lampoon's parody Kefauver High School Yearbook, my life course had been set.

I was blessed in a way few 14 year old kids are.

I knew exactly what I was going to be when I grew up -- a writer.

I ended up being a copywriter, but it's close.

Last week, I caught a documentary now playing on Showtime -- Drunk, Stoned, Brilliant, Dead, the story of the National Lampoon. It was like being a teenager all over again. And I will admit to pangs of nostalgia.

Maybe you're not the aficionado that I was and continue to be (in my garage you'll find crates of old Natlamp magazines, some from my childhood and some purchased on e-bay.) But in the movie you will see the faces of comedy legends who altered our cultural landscape in a way Jimmy Page or Roger Daltry never could.

There's John Belushi, Bill Murray, Gilda Radner and Chevy Chase, all NL alumni.

Not to mention the killer writers who worked behind the scenes: Doug Kenney, Michael O'donahue, Tony Hendra and PJ O'rourke. These are the genii who took humor to a different level. Who, with their love of language and their razor sharp wit, went beyond the juvenile, broad slapstick and layered in sly satire, shifted social mores and shook up the world of politics.

And unlike brethren publications, they included tits. Lots of tits.

If I may co-opt a sentiment recently expressed by one of my colleagues, these guys "towered over my imagination."

Of course that was then and this is now. Today, I'm a 44 year old copywriter with a mortgage, two pressing college tuitions and a Public Storage locker full of life's crushed dreams, so if one of my National Lampoon idols has a brain aneurysm or overdoses on Oxycontin don't expect any heartfelt paeans from me.

I've got banner ads to write.


I know he's not everyone's cup of tea, but I thoroughly enjoy Anthony Bourdain and his alcohol/recreational drug-fueled trips around the world.

I've watched him drift cars with Iranian teenagers.
Drink himself silly with jungle farmers in Borneo.
And sport wood and kiss the amazing ladyboys of Thailand.

If I were to travel the world with anyone, you know other than my wife who doesn't like the way I pack a suitcase, it would be with Mr. Bourdain.

Last week, I caught up an old show that struck close to home.
The homeland, I should say.

Anthony was in Glasgow, where my mother was born. This might explain the email address attached to this blog and my twitter handle: glasgowdick. It's not the most creative thing I've ever done but to be honest, I never thought I'd be blogging for 7 weeks, much less 7 years.

Before the show even begins, Bourdain prefaces the adventure by stating, "Glasgow might be one of his Top 5 cities in the world!" This is a man who has seen, eaten and drunk it all, so that's mighty high praise.

I've been there twice. And between the relentless cold rain, the biting wind, and smoldering smelly cigarettes in the hands of every pedestrian, I'm not sure Glasgow cracks my top 100 cities.

Not surprisingly, what Bourdain found so charming about this grimy, hard-nosed, working-class city with its quaint old building and penchant for irony...


...were the people.

As Bourdain found out while dining with one of the city elders, Scottish people are funny. Not ha ha funny, but dark, twisted, cynical funny.

The Glasgowegian explained while sipping on a bowl of rabbit/squirrel/boiled chipmunk stew.

"Americans are different than the Scots," she stated.

"How so?" replied Bourdain.

"You tell an American that your father just passed away and the immediate reaction is sympathy. Genuine, heartfelt sympathy."

"That's a good thing," said Bourdain.

"Of course it is. But you tell a Scotsman that your father just died and he might come back to you with something like, 'Oh, what size shoe did he wear?'"

I'm not interested in wearing a dead man's shoes, but I can appreciate the black humor that springs from generation's long thriftiness and hope eternal.

My own Glasgow anecdote...

After a 6 hour train ride from London, we (the entire Siegel Clan) arrived at the Central Station (pictured above). It was raining, naturally. But we managed to drag our 8 suitcases and paraphernalia across the street to the Taxi stand. A wee old man arrived in his Prius and with a little elbow grease managed to stuff all our belongings in the trunk. We squeezed into the cab and I told him to take us to the Grand Central Hotel.

The driver slapped his calloused hand to his forehead, "Yur already der, mate."

And with that he pointed to the building above the train station which happened to be the hotel. He hopped out the cab and started unloading the luggage. He even helped my wife and daughters drag it across the cobblestone street and into the warmth of the hotel lobby, where it was balmy 59 degrees.

Under his breath he mumbled, "aye your a dighted scunner."

I slipped him a twenty dollar, but he came away with so much more.

Because you know, and I know, and Anthony Bourdain knows, he'll be telling the story of the stupid Yank at the pub until they bury his shoeless corpse in the dark, danky dirty of good old Scotland.

All hail the freelancer

Sometimes the grapevine bears some very interesting fruit.

For instance years ago, a friend of mine found himself in a resources meeting with many of the agency brass (in this case the emphasis is on ass). A big new project was rearing its head and the  powers that be were trying to determine staffing/freelance needs.

Being a good friend, he threw my name in the hat. To which one Peter-Principled, smarmy taskmaster replied...

"Oh no, we're not bringing in Siegel. Every time I see him all I hear is cash registers ringing."

Really?

In compliance with RoundSeventeen's strict no names policy I'm not naming names (though there's nothing in the policy about dropping clever little hints.) Suffice to say this anonymous fellow is to advertising what Sarah Palin is to the world of nuanced diplomacy.

Not only was the comment stupid. It was wrong.

Look, I'm no soothsayer, but I think we can all agree the ad industry is changing. And I'm gonna go out on a self-serving limb --because let's face it that's what soothsaying is all about -- and suggest the future and very survivability of our cherished business depends on the freelancer.

What would lead me to such a diagnosis? After all I'm not in the diagnosis business.

The current model of an ad agency with its long tables of bescarved, bepierced, and betattoed creatives is simply unsustainable. Particularly with the decline of AOR relationships and the advent of jump ball scenarios.

You see while it may be cost effective to fill the hallways of the creative department with newly minted college graduates, the truth is they're getting paid whether they're fecklessly stewarding billion dollar brands or just working on their sniping skills in the latest version of Call of Duty.

Freelancers, on the other hand, hit the ground running. You start the meter, they start the work.

And yes they might cost more, but only to the untrained eye.

Because before an agency pulls the trigger and brings in the mercenaries they go to the trouble of getting the brief signed. They make sure the assignment is buttoned up. That there is consensus. That deliverables are agreed upon. They will go out of their way to get the most value out of the money they're spending on freelancers by doing all the legwork in advance.

In other words, the agencies are operating at their most efficient.

Moreover, this has a push-pull effect on the clients. They're the ones footing the bill. And guess what happens? Clients start getting their shit together. They streamline approval processes. Clarify their thinking. And banish from the room anyone saying the following...

"I don't know why I don't like it, I just don't."

In other other words, they too are operating at their most efficient.

It's a win-win situation. And that's just the tip of the proverbial iceberg. If this were a 273 page Powerpoint deck we'd only be at page 6. Other advantages to bringing in the hired guns? No healthcare costs. No melodrama. No paid vacations. Hell, you don't even have to feed freelancers.

The money saved from buying bagels alone would finance Martin Sorell's next yacht.

So you see unctuous unnamed "creative" executive who shall remain unnamed, you shouldn't shy away from hiring me or any other freelancer. You should pat us on the back and say, "Oh my, thank you for being here."


I am very upset.

Unbeknownst to me or my wife, someone has been taking unwarranted pictures of our 18 year old daughter. Stealthily stalking and snapping shots of her, at her most vulnerable moments.

It's a modern day nightmare that is causing us all to lose vital sleep.

I should point out that the creeper in question is not some two-time loser with a rap sheet of lurid petty crimes.

No, the peeper in question is Big Brother.

Behold...


That's right my daughter faithfully executed the California Roll, failing to come to a complete stop at a red light before proceeding with a right hand turn. And it was captured on video by Culver City's state of the art webcam. Or so the city alleges.

It should be noted that there was no cop on duty and the only evidence they have of the infraction are these grainy photos. I don't know whether there's actual video footage I only know the government says there is.

In any case, the warpaint is being applied, the black Brook Brothers suit reserved for weddings, funerals and boring Rosh Hashanah services is coming out of mothballs. And the mustache, eyebrows and ears are all getting manscaped, because we're going to war.

I was denied my day in court when I threatened to take down the NordicTrack company and their flimsy stationary bike. They put the kibosh on my efforts when I began publicly and relentlessly humiliating Jillian Michaels (their spokesperson) on her Facebook page. They wisely refunded all my money and even paid to have that Chinese assemblage of cheap nuts and bolts hauled out of my garage.

Similarly I was robbed of my opportunity to deliver my version of Mr. Smith Goes to Washington and judicate the differences I've had with the non-stop yelping of a neighbor's dog (that situation has been temporarily resolved. Somewhat.)

So I'm loaded for bear on this one.

$490 for an alleged teenage indiscretion?


"You're out of order. You're all out of order!"

The bar is so low

I told myself I wasn't going to do political rants anymore but that was before last week's endorsement of Donald Trump by America's own Poet Laureate.

Saturday Night Live and the nation's top pundits have already dissected her rootin' tootin' ramble, so I'm not going to attempt to top them.

I will say that watching Sarah speak is not unlike watching those crazy Russian dashboard videos.

You never know what's coming.
And when it does, you can only drop your jaw in amazement.

That Holy Shit reaction is not just about Palin, but the complete unraveling of the Republican Party.

I have no allegiance to either side of the aisle. And to be honest, some days I'm more conservative and some days I'm more liberal. I like to believe I can entertain two competing lines of thought at the same time. And so I have no dog in the fight. But with regards to this year's current crop of Republican presidential candidates, I can only say, "Is this the best you've got?'

Moreover, I'm left wondering about the people actually running the GOP.

These are folks with years of strategic experience. Experts who should know how to mend the rift between the tea party contingent and the more "progressive" wing -- if that even exists anymore.

Look, 270 votes from the electoral college are not going to be easy to come by. Particularly when trotting out a nonstop diet of hate, intolerance, and religious bigotry. Sarah Palin's nice rack, notwithstanding.

Seems to me they'd want to be opening the doors to the tent not sewing them shut with thread made out of kevlar. Where are the sensible Republicans like John Huntsman? Goldwater? Or even Eisenhower?

I'll never forget a pivotal point in my advertising career.

Hunkered down in The Fish at the old Chiat/Day Warehouse (the best of all the Chiat/Day buildings), I had the opportunity to watch Lee Clow and Bob Kuperman discuss the strategy for an upcoming pitch. After meandering through a bunch of pointless executions, Bob wisely told the entire creative department (and the planners) to step back. He asked us to take a breath and ask ourselves:

"What is it we need to do to win this piece of new business?"

Maybe that wasn't a revelation for others, but it was for me. Because it necessitated more than just cranking out a funny spot or clever headline. It required an honest assessment of the situation and a collective shift in our POV.

Winning the White House is not the same as winning the Bounty Paper Towel account from Proctor & Gamble. However, it might be a good idea for Rance Priebus and his cronies at the RNC to take a good long look at their current contenders including: a doctor who believes the Earth is 6000 years old, a Harvard graduate who believes the Bible trumps the Constitution and a hip-talking gasbag who is as unfamiliar with the Nuclear Triad as he is with a decent barber.

The Republicans need to do themselves a favor, step back for a moment, and ask themselves:

"What is it we need to do to win this election?"

It's backscratching time

Last week was incredibly pleasant.

In addition to my wife leaving town for a few days and my well earned 'mancation', complete with dirty dishes left in the sink, a limitless supply of Maker's Mark 46 and two pregnant burritos from El Nepol, I got feedback.

Lots of feedback.

Of the 5 Star variety, no less.

From Kate Kemp, a talented freelance writer  based in NYC so she poses no threat. She was so happy to receive my book she posted this photo (see above) on my timeline. Moreover, unlike you losers, she took the time to send me a personal email/review.


I may know a little about Photoshop but I'm not good enough to fake a Facebook email.

I wanted to thank Kate for taking time out of her day so I thought I'd give her a shout out and help her land her next gig.

I also wanted to thank my brother-in-law, John O'Conner, who teaches high school English. Last week he called me out of the blue to tell me how much he was laughing and how the book managed to touch on universal themes over and above advertising.

He also mentioned that I dangled some participles, but I'm a copywriter so who gives a shit?

And finally, I'd like to acknowledge Executive Creative Director Erik Spiegler, who again unlike you miserly bastards, generously penned the following missive...


To Kate, John and Erik, thank you.

Want to see your name or earn a plug on this blog?

  You know what to do .


The earth moved last week.

Not because of any tectonic plate shifting. The seismic activity was confined to the Los Angeles advertising world, where in the span of just a few days we learned of the departure of one CCO -- Chief Creative Officer for those of you in the real world -- and the hiring of two new ones.

With all this free flowing digital ink, and none of it about me, it's hard to not feel like I'm being ignored.

That is until one loyal reader found this article buried in the back pages of ADWEEK (just the printed version.)


HAWTHORNE, CA -- Independent boutique agency, SynergInc, a rapidly growing team of "brand landscapers" has not named Rich Siegel to be their Chief Creative Officer. The 44-year old copywriting veteran, known for his brutal honesty and uncompromising demeanor, was not chosen to take SynergInc to the next level and will continue to be exploring other opportunities.

SynergInc President Herman Hardwick was eager to go public with the announcement of Siegel's non-selection.

"We couldn't be happier not to welcome Siegel to the ranks of SynergInc's staff, a proven team of marketing assassins who come to work every day ready to change the world with wide-eyed optimism, selfless sacrifice and a limitless arsenal of cutting edge UX design, robust databases and rich banner ads.

At SynergInc, we are finding new ways for our clients to engage in conversations with their customers. We are extremely excited that Siegel will not be in those conversations."

Cramming his laminated ABC outdoor boards back into his oversized leather portfolio case, the 44 year old Siegel, who refused to show us his driver's license, had this to say about not being named CCO, "That's just how the business goes these days. Did I mention my recently published book?"

Piano sold separately

I did something I find myself doing once every two years -- I bought a new iPhone.

Not because I plan to film my cinematic opus in all its high resolution, hand-held beauty.

Or that I can press down on a photo and make it do cartwheels or some other nonsense which I will never use.

Or even that I'm a huge fan of the increasingly-huge Jon Favreau, who looks like he ate the entire craft service team during the shooting of Chef.

I bought a new iPhone because the battery on my old iPhone had less pep to its step than Abe Vigoda.

And while migrating my photos from one nebulous wing of the iCloud to another I stumbled across the photo above. It's the Ludwig van Beethoven Action Figure Doll. It was a gift given to my sister-in-law's nephew Max, during a recent Chanukah celebration.

I've gone on record as being 'easily-amused' but this tschochke-esque toy figure tickled my fancy the way old Ludwig van tickled the ivories, which if you look closely, you'll find cleverly woven into the packaging.

The makers of the Ludwig van Beethoven Action Figure Doll -- a phrase I never thought I'd ever find myself writing -- have paid attention to all the details. From the black wooden moccasins to the neckerchief to the un-ignorable loin thingamajig. I'm sure there's a 17th century term for this groin-covering garment, but I'm just too lazy to look it up.

Besides, there's a piano stool!

I don't know which genius at the Beijing Action Figure Toy Factory thought to include a piano stool and go the extra mile to have it custom wrapped in its own impossible-to-cut plastic clamshell, but you sir, are a genius of the highest magnitude.

As if all this were not inspirational enough, the fine folks at Accoutrements, Outfitters of Popular Culture, adorned the package with a life lesson from LVB:

"What I have in my heart must come out: that is why I compose."

It's safe to say that this may be applied to many of us who still toil in advertising. Tweaked of course to reflect our modern reality.

"What I have in my mailbox, bills, must be paid: that is why I will attend the Tuesday morning briefing."

Don't tell Max, but I've already purchased his gift for Chanukah 2016. Another exquisite offering from the fine folks at Accoutrements...

"This soup is cold."

You probably haven't noticed but I've been very quiet on the political front as of late.

On second thought I don't think you've noticed because I don't like to assume people read RoundSeventeen with any kind of regularity. Or monitor its content. Or frankly, pay any attention. Because I think after 7 years the irrelevance of this blog has been very well established, thank you very much.

But a few weeks ago I got entangled, in a very civil manner mind you, with a few Facebook friends regarding the viability of a Bernie Sanders candidacy/presidency.

They saw it as a possibility.

I clearly do not.

It has nothing to do with his policies. While Bernie is clearly a Democrat, I think if more middle class families in the red states paid less attention to his silvery freak flag and listened to this passionate progressive they'd actually find he speaks to their needs.

He wants to lesson their tax burden and have the slack picked up for by billionaires and large tax-evading corporations shielding their income on Crete.

Or Nevis.

Or The Maldives.

And if people could get past the meaningless Socialist label, a remnant of a useless Cold War from the last century, they might see Bernie is fiercely committed to serving the middle class. And does so, with a sense of integrity rarely seen on K Street.

What makes Bernie Sanders, an American born in America, unfit for the Oval office can be found right at the tip of his schmeckle. More accurately, it can't be found.

You see, Bernie is a landsman.

He's MOT.

A God-shmearing, lox-loving, candle-lighter who will, if he survives the primaries, no doubt appear in Adam Sandler's next Chanukah song.

And this country will NEVER elect a Jew for President of these United States.

Look, I'm 44 years old and have been around the block a few times, so I can say this with a fair amount of certainty. It's just not going to happen.

"Rich, are you out of your mind? This country has come a long way. We have a black president. Gay people can now get married. And women are now making 77 cents for every dollar made by a man. We are an enlightened people."

I don't have the time or the inclination to articulate, in debate team style, the many reasons proving my side of the argument. I'm not going to cherry pick vitriolic quotes from populist websites like stormfront or vanguard. And I'm not going to bore you with personal anti-Semitic anecdotes ripped from the bowels of the boy's locker room at Suffern Junior High School.

It's just a pure, indisputable gut feeling.

You can even call it Jewish instinct, like when a car dealer tells you that if he went any lower on the price he'd be losing money.

President Sanders. Sorry, Bernie that's not going to happen.

How big can we get?

I started my copywriting career at the now defunct Abert, Newhoff & Burr, but things didn't really click until I moved over to Chiat/Day (the proper name for the agency, BTW.) There, I had the pleasure of working in the vicinity of the Grouchy One, Jay Chiat.

Every new employee was given one of these little red handbooks. In it, was the collected wisdom and seeming incongruencies of the man and the agency.

For instance, Jay loudly and proudly proclaimed, "I see everything that goes out the door." This is followed quickly by a directive to his then executive assistant Sharon, "Why are you showing me this?"

I bring this up because the conundrum that Jay faced in 1994, still haunts us today. Only it has gotten worse.

Let's step back for a second.

There was a time when amongst the thousands of assignments floating around the agency, everyone recognized the ones that were "D&D" or simply Down and Dirty. The pay-the-bills evil schlock that needed to be executed, expedited and expectorated with the least amount of effort.

The back of an FSI.
The 5 second tag on a Tier Two spot.
The 10 second live radio DJ read.
The race win ad at the Des Moines BMX quarterfinals.
The 78 X 125 thumbnail banner ad for Harvard Business Review.com

There was an unspoken understanding that, placed in the hands of competent, talented creatives, these little down and dirty jobs could be handled quickly and efficiently. That understanding was expelled from the building. Along with the FAX machines and the notion that employees should have weekends off.

Today, there are no down and dirty jobs. Everything, and I mean everything, is a 5 Alarm Fire Drill. Worthy of late night Pad Thai noodles, a few wasted weekends and a 138 page deck. Gotta have a deck.

"If we don't get this hang tag right, those guys from Droga5 will sweep in here and steal this account."

"The new Tweet has been approved by the Group Creative Director who needs to show it to the Executive Creative Director who needs to run it by the Chief Creative Officer who will then pass it on to the CEO."

"Where are we on the 17th round of revisions to the CTA?"

Not only does my observation apply to everything, it applies to everywhere.

As I've noted before, as a freelancer I work in many, many different agencies of all shapes and sizes. And I've seen this expensive phenomena of micro(aggressive)management across the board.

A few months ago I sat in on a conference call. And as the Assistant Associate Planner of Experiential Digital Strategies was merging trapezoids and parallelograms via the magic of Powerpoint, I took the time to scan through the meeting attendee list.

There were no less than 47 people on the call.

That's two football teams. Two baseball teams. And seven guys in the Men's Room standing way too close to each other at the stadium stainless steel pee trough.

Jay Chiat one famously asked, "How big can we get before we get bad?"

He might have added, "How big can we get before we get bloated?"


It's Wednesday morning where you are. But here on the other side of the time/space continuum, it's still Saturday morning, (January 9th).

As I have explained in the past, I do the entire week's blogging on the prior Saturday morning and schedule their postings all in one sitting.

Impressive you say? Well, not if you're paying attention and spot all the facile thinking, the rehashed themes and the countless grammatical errors (that's for you Gary John).

None of that matters now.

Because by the time you are reading this column, the Powerball numbers will have been drawn, the giant over sized check plastered on foam core and hastily written out to yours truly.

More importantly, I will be sucking garlic-soaked snails from their paper thin shells while sitting atop my new 120 foot yacht somewhere off the coast Anguilla.

Oh and I'll be drinking Korbel champagne, extra dry Brut. Not that cheap shit they drag out for agency birthday parties because it's $3.99 a bottle and Janice from Accounting don't give a fuck.

You might be wondering how I can be so sure that I'm the next Powerball winner.

First of all you should know I never buy lottery tickets.

Never.

Not a big fan of gambling and all too aware how the odds are stacked in favor of The Man. But as I was coming home from my midday swim, traffic on Culver Blvd was unusually heavy, so I went south to Braddock drive. As I zig-zagged my way through the bowels of Culver City, I decided to stop at the 7-11 to pick up a newspaper and a Diet Coke.

I exited the car I was approached by a very disheveled, very obvious homeless woman in her late 40's. I reached for my wallet before she could utter a word about buying a sandwich or getting a bus ticket back to Sacramento. I handed her a five spot.  Moments later I approached the counter with newspaper and beverage in hand.

The homeless woman, with her distinctive BO, was standing right in front of me. Without any shame or guilt, she used the money I had given her to buy lottery tickets.

I would've raised a stink, not that we needed any more of that, but instead I chose to take this as a sign. A sign from God that the consequence of my actions, the detour, the last minute impulse to stop at 7-11, and the generous display of empathy for my fellow man, had led me to this time and place for the fateful selection of my Winning Powerball Ticket.

It's the least the Universe could do in light of the incredibly disappointing sales of my recently published book.

Just so you know, I've opted for the all in one cash payout. Subtract taxes and various lawyer fees, the $900 million payout is actually closer to $425 million. What am I going to do with this obscene amount of cash?

After the obligatory yacht/snail/champagne buying, I'm going to snap up some ad agencies, form a holding company, go on tour speaking about "working for our clients", "redefining the digital landscape", "shifting paradigms via integrated synergistic messaging", and collect some fat ass checks.

That's where the real money is at.

I only have one job.

I'm closing in on 12 years as owner/operator/proprietor of Rich Siegel Worldwide, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cynical Industries.

Cynical Industries.
We're only in it for the money.

Every year is different and brings with it new adventures.

Well, except for my first three years as a freelancer (2004-2007), where I was gainfully employed as a 'permalancer' back at Chiat/Day (I prefer the old moniker.) This never sat well with my brother, a CPA with little or no understanding for the way the advertising world works.

"Wait, they fired you back in 2002. And now they brought you back as a freelancer? With no management responsibilities? And they pay you more than you were making before? And you get to wear shorts to the office?"

Yes, yes, yes and yes.

My brother, a man not fond of monkey suits, was most upset by the last bit of dissonance.

Nevertheless, I was earning my money. Putting out fires on almost every Chiat/Day account. And even writing body for some of the young bloods (interns) who were still intimidated by a blank page and begged me to do their work.

The economy went south in 2008 and I was shown the door. Since then I've stepped foot in almost every agency in Southern California, traditional, digital and otherwise. I never know where the next assignment is coming from. Thankfully, it always does.

In 2015, I found myself working for a slew of new clients. Invariably, they come to me because they've heard of this blog or seen some funny pictures of Kim Jung Un  or even caught wind of my book.

Social media may not be right for selling widgets, but it works wonders for selling writers.

I even started doing work for this little tech start up in Seattle, Amazon. Maybe you've heard of them.

And so, while many of you have grown tired of my endless self promotion, my snarky commenting and my ubiquitous internet presence, you can be sure it will only continue. And more than likely grow.

At least until my daughters have graduated from college or I've won the Powerball.

Whichever comes first.

Who knew?

I met my doppelgänger about 6 years ago, shortly after I started writing this blog.

We met via the interwebs through the good graces of a mutual colleague, another copywriter.

Here are the amazing similarities:

We are both copywriters.
We are both from NY.
We are both of the Hebraic persuasion.
We are both fathers, of two daughters.
Prior to advertising, we both labored as short order cooks.
I'd like to say we are both the same age but my doppelgänger is considerably older than 44.
Finally, though I know there are a few other amazing coincidental parallels, we are both dyed in the wool, card carrying, certifiable, unmistakable misanthropes.

In fact, as people who generally don't like other people, you can imagine how weird after 6 years of Internet invisibility, it would be to actually sit down and break bread with my disdainful doppelgänger.

But, it wasn't.

George Tannenbaum, my brother from another mother and another father -- who no doubt descended from the same East European shtetl where our forefathers were bullied and robbed of their borscht money by crazy cossacks -- was flying with his wife to Hawaii.

While on a two day layover in LA, George thought it'd be nice to have a face-to-face.

It was.

In his recap of our breakfast , George noted that I was considerably thinner and healthier looking than I had always led on. He dutifully noted my sensible eating routine and my disciplined carb-free selection of eggs and fruit. A torturous regimen that has done me no good whatsoever.

But I had observations of my own.

You see, George is fond of portraying himself as a dour Debbie Downer, albeit a very scholarly sourpuss. A man who could go toe-to-toe with Moliere, quoting chapter and verse the many, many reasons why we all suck.

However, like Abraham Lincoln says, you can't believe everything you read on the Internet. The reality is -- and mind you we only sat down for an hour or so -- George and his wife, were exceedingly not unpleasant.

In fact, the words, which no reader of his blog would ever suspect, jovial and spirited, come to mind.

If I didn't have to get back to my home office to crank out some banner ads for a cyst removal clinic I could have chatted with George and his lovely wife well into the afternoon, particularly had the morning coffee turned into early Bloody Marys.

Perhaps next time I'm in NY (I will be available for freelance as of January 17th) George and I will meet again at the Tempus Fugit, his watering hole, and we can knock back a few Pike's Ale (THE ALE THAT WON FOR YALE.)

I'm not big on re-caps.

The end of 2015 slipped by and I did nothing to rehash the highlights and low lights of the year.

Mostly because I don't think any of you want to relive my life. I published a book, I made my yearly numbers, I sent two kids off to college, I had an onion bialy with delicious whitefish salad, blah blah blah.

However, I did coin a phrase in 2015 that is seemingly and unexpectedly gaining some traction. I know this because I have received several emails to the effect. And I've read the comments. And I've seen it repeated with an obligatory Rich Siegel Hat Tip.

Frivolous, Fuckwadian, Digital Knick Knacks™.

Those of you in the ad biz know exactly what I'm referring to. In fact, I'm willing to wager some of you even have a spot in production for this year's Super Bowl. But that spot won't hit the airwaves and thrill 270 million people until you have faithfully completed the 360 degree arc of brand integration.

And that means finishing the social media extension of your big beautiful commercial with some kind of superfluous disposable social media tchotchke™.

What will that be?

* Tweet To Eat -- Tell us your best Wheat Thin story in 140 characters or less and win a lifetime supply Wheat Thins, now available in Honey Mustard, Chili Cheese and Zesty Salsa (it's zesty).

* Free Wheelin' --Upload your photo and see what your face would look like as a Nissan Hubcap.

* Meow Mixed -- Post an Instagram of your cat enjoying our delicious, nutritious fish and chicken anal glands and we'll go through your iTunes library and create your very own Meow Mix Mixed Tape.

* Bud Lights The Way -- Send us your email address, proof that you are over 21 years of age and access to your GPS and through the magic of Augmented Reality, we will use your mobile phone to direct you to the nearest location where you can buy Bud Light. It's 22nd century technology in the palm of your 21st century hand!

*The Old Spice Scintillating, Smellolicious Scavenger Hunt -- Find the tumblr photo of the Old Spice  Man on the inter webs, customize the photo so that he is on a goat, retweet the photo and collect 1000 shares, screen grab your customized photo with 1000 shares and at least 10,000 likes, and post it on your Facebook page along with a 3,000 word essay and we'll send you a coupon good for a 15% discount on your next purchase of any Old Spice product.

Those of you not in the business, like my friend Paul who often complains that I waste too much digital ink on advertising or advertising-related themes, could care less about these Herculean marketing flim flams which require so much effort and yield so little return -- sort of like making crepes.

Fear not advertising laymen, you are in the company of about 8 billion other people who never engage with any of this crap.

And who would frankly be content to live out the rest of their days without ever seeing another Frivolous, Fuckwadian, Digital Knick Knack™.

I don't know if you've been following the international geo-political situation lately, but relations with  our old adversary, Russia, have reached an all time low. Putin has declared NATO a national threat and the Europeans are issuing more sanctions in light of Russia's indiscriminate bombing in Syria.

Apparently we want to kill the really bad Islamic fundamentalists and NOT the moderately bad Islamic fundamentalists.

Naturally, all this escalating tension happens when RoundSeventeen web traffic is soaring in the former Soviet Union.


These diplomatic conflagrations could have a disastrous impact on the precarious negotiations currently underway with the Baikalskaya Brothers and their plans to turn my book, Round Seventeen & 1/2, The Names Have Been Changed to Protect the Inefficient into a movie.

To swing the pendulum back in my favor I've decided to revisit some of my favorite online Russian Dating Sites.

If I can bring some happiness to these lonely Russian singles, perhaps Karma will return the favor.


This is Irina Svetzonski from Vlaski, a small rural area north of Leningrad. This double-jointed beauty is looking for a man who enjoys a home cooked meal. "I will bite the head off this chicken, cook it over a fire of burning tires, and we will drink vodka until the police come and arrest us for trespassing on this old Jew's farm."


Latvana from Minsk also knows that the way to man is through his stomach as she impishly displays a heart-shaped potato that says Love. The tanlines tell us Latavana enjoys the great outdoors. And the hypodermic needle on the shelf behind her tell us she might also have a taste for the China White.


Food seems to be a recurring theme and perhaps it's a great aphrodisiac in a land of few pleasures, unfinished construction projects and crazy dashboard videos. Here, Yaraslova from St. Petersburg, demonstrates her appetite for adventure. "Some men claim I'm too much woman for them. My question to you comrade is, are you enough man for this woman?"


I think Petrov, with his massive pectoral muscles, his freak flag, and his unbeatable sense of fashion and interior design, may be just the man for Yaraslova. A match made in heaven. Or at least Belarus.


If Petrov doesn't work out, there is always Igor, a man who, like many Russians, is also fond of hanging Persian rugs on the wall. Igor enjoys swordplay, stomach crunches and oddly effeminate dogs which counterbalance his raging testosterone.


And finally there is Elena. Sadly this princess/mermaid was with us when I first made light of Russian Dating Sites more than 3 years ago. She still hasn't made a love connection. I'm not put off by the bedsheets turned into a swim fin, the crooked tiara, or even the unstrung $6.99 guitar. But Elena, you might want to reconsider not drinking whatever it is you are drinking out of a mug that doubles as a skull.

Just a thought.

Nostrovya!


Saw a sci-fi movie over the Christmas break.

No, not the one given to excessive hype, costumed fanboys & fangirls and millions of dollars of speciously-related, co-opted marketing efforts.

"Come in now for Buffalo Wild Wings Intergalactic Triple Dippers. 15 juicy wings and 3 large sides of honey butter, Louisiana Lemon and Atomic Hot. May the Sauce be with you."

I saw a different cult classic, one I'd meaning to see for a long time -- Blade Runner.

To be frank, I didn't enjoy it as much as I had hoped I would. It felt like a poor man's Terminator. But now, having seen it, I can't believe the many ways in which I am connected to this film.

First the obvious.

The movie features one of my neighbors, the unmistakable M. Emmet Walsh -- who lives in the house behind my property. Emmet plays Harrison Ford's police chief in that kind of breezy, hard-nosed style that became a film cliche in the early 80's. You probably don't know Emmet by name but upon seeing his face and hearing his booming voice you'd recognize him for his massive body of cinematic work.

The cinematographer for Blade Runner was oscar-winning Jordan Cronenweth. Years ago I shot a bunch of Jaguar commercial s with Jordan's now grown-up sons, Tim and Jeff. The work wasn't great (my fault not the Cronenweths) but the post production parties and drinking were.

Many of scenes in Blade Runner were shot in the Bradbury Building in downtown Los Angeles. This too is odd, as just two weeks ago, my wife and I took the train to the Central Market and stopped by this iconic landmark.

As if all that weren't enough, the movie also starred the stunning Joanna Cassidy (pictured above).

Years before I got into advertising I was the Assistant Manager and Head of Catering Operations at a major restaurant. OK, I was a line cook. The point is it was a very popular place. And I had youth, status and hair.

Ms. Cassidy was a good friend of one the waitresses and found herself at one of our post-closing parties. Fueled with alcohol, a false sense of bravado, and the willingness to turn on the flirtatious charm, it wasn't long before Ms. Cassidy and I were pouring ourselves into a late night taxi.

We made it to her Brentwood apartment at 4:30 AM.
And because traffic was light, I was back at my Culver City apartment by 4:45 AM.

Now, considering my fumbled opportunity and having seen Ms. Cassidy in all her naked cougary goodness, I can certainly attest to that age-old adage.

Hollywood truly is a land of broken dreams.


It's been a long year and boy are my feet tired.

(A strained variation on that old joke, "I just flew in from NY and boy are my arms tired.")

Only in this case, it's not half as funny and it requires some explanation.

Here goes.

For the past week and a half many of you have been traveling: skiing, snorkeling, shussing off to see grandma and grandpa. I've been doing none of that. There is no grandma and grandpa. Thanks to a livelong addiction to tobacco and creamed herring, of the Jewish and the Scottish variety, my predecessors have been enjoying the dirt nap for quite some time.

And so, I've been working.
And hiking.

Working, because when the phone pings or the emails come flooding in and someone offers up a day rate to knock out some outdoor boards or banner ads or spamifestos, I immediately reply, "Thank you sir, may I have another."

It's the downside of being a freelancer. You never, ever, ever say 'no' to work. And it's not like I'm in position to pass up the money. Not when I've got two kids in college and a house with enough sewage and drainage problems to keep three full time plumbers on call.

When I wasn't working, or simply needed to step away from the keyboard, we, the Siegels, went hiking.

We Shanghaied our daughters up to Griffith Park and made another unsuccessful attempt to summit the Hollywood sign. We got within a 1/2 mile of our destination before the whining and the foot dragging commenced. Sporadically interrupted with the telltale call of the spoiled West LA teenager...

"I hate you."

Having learned our lesson, we -- sans children-- ventured north to the Oxnard-adjacent Chalmers Park Trailhead. As the sun was setting over the Pacific we found ourselves double backing over unmarked looped trails that we had covered earlier in the afternoon. There was some slight panic. And for a brief moment I thought I'd have to whip out my multi-tool and fashion some kind of lean-two shelter. Or snare some unsuspecting chipmunk for some protein to tide us over until the morning.

Our best hike came later in the week when we decided to explore the nearby Westridge Canyon trail. We didn't know much about it, other than it didn't require a long trip up the PCH or the often frustrating search for parking that sends many Hollywood hikers into get-off-the-road rage.

We simply drove up to the top of Westridge Road and started walking. That's when we discovered the trail extends from deep in the bowels of Brentwood to the southern edge of Encino. In all, an 8 mile there and back. Siri also told us there is an abandoned Nike Missile Station at the very end of the moderately inclined uphill trail.

I hadn't intended to walk 8 miles that day. Nor had my wife. And even though we are in excellent shape and have been fortified by careers in advertising, it's not something two 44-year olds can just wing on an impulse. But, and this is how I know I made the right choice a long, long time ago, my wife was more than up for the adventure.

"Let's do it," as she tightened the laces on her hiking shoes.

It was a beautiful hike. Capped, surprisingly, with the opportunity to explore the old missile launching site. And enjoy some Cold War humor.


On the way home we stopped at the Brentwood Country Mart for a well-earned beer, cheese and nuts. And there at the Farm Shop we saw the iconic Helen Mirren, who strolled about the cured meats and the outrageously expensive bries as if she were Hollywood royalty.

My wife got into an impromptu discussion with the hostess and the waitresses about Ms. Mirren's beautiful timeless skin. And I found myself -- silently of course-- in concurrence with the claim often heard on the inter webs.

She does have a great set of tits.
